U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18407301 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts competitor and consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts competitor andl I coach/consultant for competitions, stunts, and 
related training. He intends to enter the United States to work as ~ I martial arts coach. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these 
evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief statement asserting that the Director's decision was arbitrary 
and capricious, noting that the Director "failed to acknowledge qualified evidence that supported the 
Petition." He asserts that he meets more than three of the evidentiary criteria; specifically, the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, his original contributions of major significance to 
his field, and his high salary. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does 
not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has "won competitions at the highest level in Australia, Japan, Abu 
Dhabi, USA, Brazil, London, and many more." The record reflects that the Petitioner has received 
numerous medals and accolades in the fieldl I In support of the petition, the Petitioner 
submitted a list of medals and awards that he received from 2009 to 2018, and also submitted 
documentation indicating that he was either a competitor or finalist at other competitions. For 
2 
example, the list indicates that he was the gold medalist in various compet1t10ns including the 
Australian Federation ofl I Pan Pacific (Black Belt) in 2013 and the I !Industries (Black Belt) in 2016. It farther indicates that he was the Japanese! I 
Trials winner in 2017, thel I based super fight event) champion in 2017, and a quarter 
finalist in thel I World Championship in 2018. The list also indicates that he was the gold medalist 
in various lower belt (blue, purple, and brown) competitions hosted by organizations such as the 
International! I and thel I World Pro. 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provided photographs of medals, screenshots from the websites of the event 
organizers, a Wikipedia article discussing the W orl~ I Championship, an article discussing the 
top ten prestigiou~ I competitions for competitors, and articles confirming his results in 
competitions. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted letters from various event 
organizers discussing the Petitioner's career achievements and attesting to the prestigious reputations 
of their respective competitions.1 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted was insufficient to meet the plain language on 
this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly challenge the Director's determination. 
Instead, the Petitioner generally asserts that the Director disregarded qualified evidence, such as 
industry publication articles identifying the top competitions in the field. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. As noted by the Director, while the letters from 
various event organizations speak highly of the Petitioner and his accomplishments, they do not 
demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field. While several of the authors recount the various medals he has received while competing 
at their events, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that his receipt of these medals, many of 
which were earned at lower belt levels, are nationally or internationally recognized in the martial arts 
field. 
For example, a letter froml I Head Organizer o~f....;.'t_he.c..,..._~-------------r~st=a~te.......,s 
that the Petitioner won various competitions hosted by ·n 2017 and 2018, and that th_,__ __ 
World Championships has international media coverage during each event. Another letter from I I who claims to be al I expert recounts the winning record of the Pet1~.t-io_n_e~r 
and claims that most competitions organized by tho and the I I are "the most prestigious 
com etitions withinl I Further, the Petitioner relies on an article in Eastern Europe 
hich lists various competitions and identifies organizations such asl I andl I 
L_ ________________ .....----..J.L.J,!.IJ.._...>J.U.l<.IJ,.LLl..li,.....l.Ll.u.....L.u......u .. ,above all others." The article, 
federations in the world, and ~--------~ howe1er, lalso indicates that there are various 
many tournaments worldwide. 
A prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition from the competition in which 
it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued the award. Rather, national and 
international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the field 
nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
3 
but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Additionally, unsupported 
conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a particular prize 
or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence of the various competitions and events in the field, and 
their perception within the field, the limited evidence of media coverage garnered by the Petitioner's 
awards in such competitions is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition 
associated with the medals he received at the various competitions discussed herein. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of web articles and industry statements identifying top 
competitions in the field, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's receipt of 
the claimed medals and awards were nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of these 
awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 2 The 
record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field ofi I as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not submitted 
documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, material must be published in a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, and must be about a petitioner and relate to their work 
in their field of expertise. In addition, the evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and evidence in a foreign language must comply with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3) relating to foll English language translations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. 
In addition to determining that some material was not about the Petitioner, the Director also noted that 
several articles lacked the name of the author, where others were not supported by citation statistics. Upon 
review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted evidence of material about him published inl _ 
Magazine, along with a letter from~ _____ ___, the magazine's editor and publisher.3 Although I !indicates that the publication is "distributed on newsstands worldwide," the Petitioner did 
not submit any material establishing the circulation statistics fo~ !Magazine, nor did he 
provide other circulation statistics in which to compare with this publication. As noted by the Director, 
the evidence relating to this publication is in the form of a letter from the publication itself rather than 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in dete1mining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field.) 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the published material here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 
published circulation statistics from an official or independent website or other publicly available 
source. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's disregard of this and other publisher letters was 
erroneous, arguing that "such information is a direct source and has the highest probative value." We 
disagree. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, 
No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) aff'd, 317 F. App'x 
680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on a company's self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). 
Further, the regulation requires evidence that the published material appear in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. However, the Petitioner relies on information from numerous 
websites, including! "" I which do not indicate that the websites are one of the regulatory 
required publication types. While Internet sites are technically accessible nationally and even 
internationally, we will not presume that every Internet site has significant national or international 
viewership. The act of posting an article online does not necessarily constitute publication in major 
media. 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, and despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence 
reflects published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as an athlete/competitor. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in thefieldfor 
which classification is sought [ emphasis added]." In the RFE, the Director requested clarification from 
the Petitioner regarding his intended field of endeavor, and the Petitioner affirmed that he intended to 
enter the United States as ~ I coach. Therefore, any published material as a player is not within the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) 
(upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of expertise). 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding reflect, that the Petitioner has 
had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Additional Criteria 
As we noted above, the Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he meets two additional criteria. 
However, since we have concluded that he does not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 
(iii), he cannot meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria to establish that he satisfies the initial 
evidentiary requirement for this classification, and we therefore reserve these issues. 4 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 28424522 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner states she will continue to work in the United States as an artist-in-residence in her own 
studio and art gallery. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the 
record demonstrates that she only meets one of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), of which he must meet at least three. Specifically, the Director held that she met the criteria for 
the display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in finding that she is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability, and that the Director omitted several documents in support of her extraordinary 
ability such as an expert opinion letter. In addition, the Petitioner maintains that she met the 
evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon which the Director issued an adverse 
determination and provides additional information. 
Upon review, we find that the Director's decision reflects a careful and thorough review and analysis 
of the Petitioner's claims and supporting evidence including the expert opinion letter. Therefore, we 
adopt and affirm the Director's decision with the added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 
I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting 
that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every 
other circuit that has squarely confronted this issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining 
eight U.S. Court of Appeals in holding the appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision 
below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
A. Major International Award 
The Director determined that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner earned a one-time 
achievement ofa major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner 
2 
does not contest this determination on appeal and therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived 
appeal on this issue. 1 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In support ofher claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner provides information 
regarding the art events including the number of exhibits and artists present, and the exhibition judge. 
However, this new information does not show that the Petitioner's awards commanded a level of 
recognition beyond the events where they were presented. For example, there is no evidence showing 
that the Petitioner's awards were announced in major media or in some other manner consistent with 
national or international acclaim. 
Without more, the Petitioner has not established that any of the awards she received are nationally or 
internationally recognized as prizes or awards of excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides copies of emails and membership cards to establish that she is a 
member of several associations. However, the evidence does not demonstrate that the associations 
require outstanding achievements of their members, and that membership eligibility is judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their field. 
Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional information regarding some of the articles submitted 
including the title, date, and author, as well as the circulation figures. However, the Petitioner does 
not demonstrate the significance of these circulation figures or establish that such data reflects status 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 2 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision. that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. At(v Gen., 401 F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See 6 USCJ S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner does not provide any new evidence or arguments which overcome the Director's 
determination. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner does not provide any new evidence or arguments which overcome the Director's 
determination. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this determination on appeal and 
therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on this issue. 3 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that in Canada, she "commanded high managerial salaries from Art 
Director to senior Creative Pre-planner positions" and she provides copies of her 2004 executive 
employment contract and Canada pension plan contributions. However, the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to show that her salary or remuneration was high relative to the compensation paid to others 
working in the field. 
Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner did not establish she commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in the same position. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner is a talented artist, she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either 
a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
3 See Matter ofR-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012). 
4 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her artwork is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 01, 2023 In Re: 28561101 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professional soccer player who has approximately 20 years of coaching 
experience in the sport. He indicates that he intends to continue working as a soccer coach in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement; therefore, he must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy 
five of the ten criteria, summarized below. 1 
• Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• Published materials in major media or other qualifying publications; 
• Participating as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field; 
• Leading/critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• High salary or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide evidence satisfying any of the claimed 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence is sufficient to 
satisfy all five criteria. 
The Petitioner farther contends that the Director erred by observing that competitive athletics and 
coaching "rely on different sets of skills and in general are not in the same area of expertise." The 
Petitioner cites a non-precedent AAO decision in support of his claim that it is possible for an 
individual's area of extraordinary ability or expertise to encompass both athletic competition and 
coaching other athletes, provided that the totality of the evidence establishes sustained acclaim and 
extraordinary ability in coaching. In cases involving athletic coaches who are former competitive 
athletes, we generally make such a determination on a case-by-case basis based on the facts presented. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he could satisfy a sixth criterion, relating to his receipt of 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). An issue 
not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A­
M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
The Petitioner, despite indicating that he played professional soccer for 15 years and enjoyed sustained 
acclaim as soccer player, submitted little evidence related to his playing career and did not seek to 
meet any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) based on his activities or achievements as a 
professional athlete. Therefore, the Director's decision was reasonably based on the Petitioner's 
documented accomplishments as a soccer coach. 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his receipt of a "Class B" license 
certificate from thel l(CBF).2 The evidence shows that he received 
this license after completing a 200-hour course with the CBF Academy in February 2019. Supporting 
documentation describing the CBF Academy's programs indicates that the specific Class B licensing 
course the Petitioner completed was designed "for professionals who work or want to work in football 
as coaches in ... youth teams." A photocopy of the Petitioner's CBF license indicates he is registered 
as a "B -Youth Football Coach." 
The record includes information from the CBF Academy website identifying prereqms1tes for 
registration in its Class B licensing programs, as well as a declaration from the academy director listing 
the theoretical and practical classes the Petitioner completed. The listed prerequisites include: (1) 
completion of a C License; (2) proven experience of at least seven full seasons as a professional 
football athlete; or (3) proven experience of at least five seasons as head coach of Base Category 
teams. These prerequisites appear to apply to those seeking a "License B -Football Coach" 
qualification; it is unclear based on the evidence provided that the same requirements apply to those 
seeking the "Youth Football Coach" license. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not demonstrate that the CBF "conferred membership" 
to the Petitioner, but rather reflects that he "took several training courses" required to obtain a license 
as a soccer coach. The Director also concluded the Petitioner did not show that CBF requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, as an essential 
condition for licensure. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "CBF's requirements are indicative ofoutstanding achievements, 
thus rendering the underlying denial erroneous." Specifically, he states that he completed a "rigorous 
program that covered a wide range oftopics" and emphasizes that the "CBF Academy is an institution 
that is focused on excellence." He summarizes the previously submitted evidence, notes that CBF 
2 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in the Union of Professional 
Coaches of the State ofl Ibut did not pursue this claim when responding to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) or in his brief on appeal. Nevertheless, we note that he did not submit any supporting evidence ofthis organization's 
membership requirements and therefore did not establish that he qualifies under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on this 
membership. 
3 
places a strong emphasis on the development and training of coaches, and stresses that he "met all of 
the prerequisites and passed all necessary assessments to become a licensed coach under the B License 
category." 
We do not question the value of the licensing programs offered by the CBF Academy or that 
institution's commitment to excellence in the sport. However, the prestige or reputation of a given 
association or organization is not determinative; the issue here is the association's membership 
requirements rather than its overall reputation. Here, we agree with the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner did not provide evidence that his attainment of the Class B youth coaching license 
satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record does not contain evidence that CBF is an association that limits membership to prospective 
members whose achievements have been judged as outstanding by recognized national or international 
experts in the sport. Rather, it indicates that CBF issues coaching licenses to those who have enrolled 
in and completed licensing programs offered by the CBF Academy. Enrolled students must attend all 
classes and achieve a 70% minimum average on assessments throughout the course to successfully 
complete it. The Petitioner emphasized that the course instructors are experts in the field but did not 
articulate how the instructors' assignment of passing marks amounts to a determination that a 
prospective license holder has outstanding achievements in the sport. The record lacks evidence that 
any further review is undertaken by CBF once an individual completes all course requirements and 
therefore does not otherwise establish that "membership" is based on an assessment that a prospective 
license-holder has outstanding achievements as a coach. 
We acknowledge evidence that certain CBF Academy courses have prerequisites for registration and 
those prerequisites include evidence that a person has a certain number ofyears of coaching or playing 
experience. However, the Petitioner did not show that these prerequisites amount to a requirement 
that a prospective license holder have "outstanding achievements" in the field or that a person's 
qualifications are reviewed by recognized national or international experts before they are permitted 
to enroll in CBF Academy coaching programs. 
For the reasons provided, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, or for a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
Evidence of experience should consist of letters from employers and should contained detailed 
information specifically addressing how the person's role was leading or critical. "Distinguished" 
means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence."3 A determination regarding whether an 
organization or establishment ( or a department or division thereof) has a distinguished reputation is 
based on factors that may include, but are not limited to, evidence of relevant media coverage, 
4 3 See Merriam-Webster Dictiona1y definition of ·'distinguished," https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ 
distinguished. 
rankings, or other recognitions received by the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual ( discussing the evaluation ofevidence 
submitted to satisfy the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
In support ofthis criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted letters from representatives ofi ID Football Club I IFC), Football I !Football Association I l andl ISoccer Club. Although the letters briefly confirmed the Petitioner's 
employment4 with these organizations, they did not articulate the nature of his duties or contributions, 
or otherwise establish how his role was leading or critical for the organization, or a division or 
department of the organization. 
The Petitioner also submitted several recommendation letters from soccer coaches and former 
professional players who have worked with him, accompanied by evidence related to the authors' 
individual achievements as athletes and coaches in the sport. While the authors ofthese letters praised 
the Petitioner's talent, commitment and abilities as a soccer coach and discussed aspects of his 
coaching career, they did not address the elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted letters did not provide specific 
information necessary to establish that his role was leading or critical, by establishing that he 
contributed in a way that was significantly important to the outcome of an organization or 
establishment's activities. The Director also noted that the initial evidence did not include 
documentary evidence to demonstrate that he has worked for an organization or establishment that has 
a distinguished reputation. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and indicated that he meets this criterion 
based on his leading roles wit~ IFC, Football! IHe provided a new 
letter from the City Football Schools Coordinator of the I IFC, who stated that the 
Petitioner "was hired as a Coach to perform training sessions with our team and students that attend 
our prestigious school." He noted that the Petitioner's contribution was "of crucial importance and 
without his presence our organization would not have the current success that we do," emphasizing 
that the professional team, in 2022, "won the A-League premiership and came in second in the entire 
Championship." The Petitioner also submitted information from Wikipedia regarding! I 
FC, which discusses the history and achievements of the club. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes his "role as a head coach for I I Football Club," 
noting that the team plays in the top level within the Australian Professional Leagues. However, the 
evidence indicates that, in March 2022, the Petitioner accepted a "casual employment position" with 
I I FC to be a coach within 'l I Sporting Schools," where he would be 
responsible for providing "a safe, inclusive and fan experience for the children." His employment 
offer indicated he may perform additional coaching roles by participating in coaching clinics and as 
part of the organization's City Club program, working with local clubs. 
4 The author of the letter froml IFC, indicated that he "interviewed [the Petitioner] for a coaching position in 
our program," and did not expressly state that he was ultimately hired or what position he held. However, the initial 
evidence also included an offer of "casual employment" from this organization, signed by the Petitioner in March 2022. 
5 Wikipedia is an online, open-content collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_disclaimer. 
5 
Therefore, although the Petitioner appears to claim on appeal that he served as head coach of the 
professional team that achieved a high level of success in Australia's top league in 2022, that claim is 
uncorroborated in the record. The Petitioner established that he was hired, on a casual "per session" 
basis, to provide coaching services to other departments or divisions within thel I FC 
organization, including departments focused on programs for children and community programs 
designed to increase the visibility of the organization. The Petitioner did not meet his burden to 
establish that he served in a leading or critical role for the overall organization or that he held a leading 
or critical role within a department or division of the organization. Moreover, the record does not 
contain sufficient, objective evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of I I 
Sporting Schools or any otherl IFC division or department that may have used the 
Petitioner's services under the terms of the casual employment agreement. 
The Petitioner's resRonse to the RFE also included an updated letter from the SAP development ~ at Football I I who stated that the Petitioner had been coaching within the Football 
L___J SAP program in Australia since February 2022, working with players between the ages of 9 
and 12. The author explained that Football I I is "the organization responsible for the 
professional! Ifootball teams" and "it is of key importance that players who intend on having a 
professional career in football have training from an early age." He farther stated that the Petitioner 
"has been a key factor in making our players succeed." 
The Petitioner submitted the Wikipedia entry for Football! Iwhich describes the organization 
as "the state governing body for soccer inl !Australia" and notes its affiliation with Football 
Australia. However, he did not provide any other evidence in support ofhis claim that the organization 
enjoys a distinguished reputation. The information from Wikipedia, even if its validity could be 
guaranteed, is limited and only briefly describes the history and formation of F ootballl Iand the 
pyramid of soccer leagues operating in the state. 
Further, the letter from the organization indicates that the Petitioner's role was limited to working with 
children in the SAP program and does not support a determination that he held a leading or critical 
role within the broader organization. The record does not contain evidence relating to the SAP 
program or its distinguished reputation and does not sufficiently establish how the Petitioner's several 
months of coaching experience within this program was significantly important to the outcome of this 
program, department, or division. The organization's broad claim that he "has been a key factor in 
making our players succeed," is insufficient to demonstrate how the Petitioner's role with this 
organization satisfied the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that he "was instrumental in re aring the next generation of soccer players and 
ensuring the continued success of soccer in .......,.__.........,and therefore "had a direct impact on the 
reputation, revenue and performance of Football as an organization." However, these claims 
are not substantiated by the letter from Football~_~or other evidence in the record. 
Finally, the RFE response included a letter from the general manager of the I I who stated that the 
Petitioner had served "as a coaching director for the Association as a whole," responsible for preparing 
and administering coaching courses "to improve the abilities ofboth our players and coaches within our 
league." She farther states that the Petitioner's work is "crucial to the success of our teams," that his 
"high level performance has led many of our teams to victory in past tournaments" and that "his role in 
our organization has been of high value." The Petitioner also submitted a document titled 'l I 
6 
History" but did not identify the source of the information contained therein. While the letter from the 
organization suggests that the Petitioner's coaching director position with I Imay be a leading or 
critical role, the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that this organization, described on appeal 
as a "volunteer-run, Christian-based soccer club" enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided a copy of his contract with. ____~------' 
which describes his remuneration package as of his date of hire in March 2022. This evidence 
indicates that he received an annual wage of$70,920 and total remuneration of $96,017 as a foll-time 
senior soccer coach. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included information from Payscale.com indicating that in 2022, the 
average annual base salary for a head football coach was A$47,500, with the top 25% of earners 
receiving a salary of A$63, 000 or higher. The Petitioner submitted additional comparative salary data 
in response to the RFE which included: (1) data on employee earnings from the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics (ABS) indicating that workers in "Education and Training" occupations earned median 
wages of approximately A$1300 per week ($67,600 annually) in 2022; (2) information regarding 
coach salaries in Australia from Talent.com, which indicates an average or median annual salary of 
A$78,020 with "most experienced workers" earning over $122,000; and (3) 2021 wage data for 
"coaches and scouts" from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion; however, as noted by the 
Petitioner on appeal, the decision did not discuss all evidence submitted in response to the RFE. 
Specifically, the Director's discussion of comparative wage data for Australia was limited to a 
reference to the information from Payscale. The Director observed that the salary information from 
this source "is limited to those who reported their salaries to the website, and the petitioner cannot 
confirm the accuracy of the self-reported information." The Petitioner maintains that USCIS policy 
guidance specifically allows for the submission of compensation surveys such as those published by 
Payscale.com. We agree with the Petitioner that position-appropriate compensation surveys may be 
considered in evaluating whether an individual meets this criterion. However, some websites that rely 
on user-reported salary data may not provide a valid comparison i±: for example, too few users reported 
their salaries, which may impact the reliability of the data. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
To support his claim that he earned a high salary in relation to other coaches in Australia, the Petitioner 
submitted data from Payscale.com that was based on 11 reported salaries and data from Talent.com 
that was based on 846 salaries. Based on the relative sample sizes, it is reasonable to determine that 
the Talent.com survey is the more reliable survey for purposes of comparison. We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's base salary ofA$70,970 and total remuneration ofA$96,0l 7 fall above the 75th percentile 
for base salary and "total pay" reported by Payscale.com. However, the average annual salary reported 
by Talent.com is A$78,020, which is higher than the Petitioner's base annual wage. While the 
7 
Petitioner's total remuneration is higher than this average salary, the survey does not provide data for 
the total remuneration of coaches in Australia and therefore cannot support a finding that the 
Petitioner's remuneration is "significantly high" in relation to others. Further, we note that the 
Talent.com survey indicates that the highest earners in the occupation are paid salaries up to 
A$122,194. Therefore, the data from Talent.com does not support the Petitioner's claim that he earns 
a high salary in relation to others working in Australia. 
We have also considered the salary data for "education and training" occupations published by ABS. 
While we do not doubt the reliability of this government-provided data, it is not specific to the 
Petitioner's industry or occupation. Data that includes multiple occupations or multiple industries 
may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). Further, the information from ABS indicates that the median annual wage for 
persons employed in "education and training positions" in Australia is A$67,600. While the 
Petitioner's base salary is slightly higher than this reported median wage, the Petitioner must show 
that he earns a "high salary" or "other significantly high remuneration," rather than an "above average" 
salary. Further, he cannot meet this criterion by comparing his total remuneration package to surveys 
or other data that only report on base salaries. Therefore, the salary information provided by ABS 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of BLS salary data for coaches, we evaluate 
persons working outside the United States based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence 
relevant to their work location, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then 
viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. The Petitioner has not 
claimed that he has commanded a high salary for a U.S.-based position and therefore the BLS data is 
not relevant to our evaluation of this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration based on his employment in Australia. We 
acknowledge that the Petitioner initially provided evidence of his salary as a coach in Thailand and 
Malaysia, where he worked between 2003 and 2010. However, the Petitioner submitted no 
comparative salary data for coaching occupations in Thailand. While he provided average salary data 
for coaches in Malaysia from Indeed.com, the data was from 2022 and was based on a small sample 
of only eight reported salaries. In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he 
earned a high salary in Malaysia but explained that the submitted information from Indeed.com was 
insufficient. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include additional evidence in support of 
his claim that he commanded a high salary while employed in Malaysia, and we agree with the 
Director's determination that the initial evidence was insufficient to meet his burden. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the three evidentiary criteria discussed above. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
8 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these remaining 
claimed criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 29156650 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mental health nurse practitioner, seeks classification under the employment-based, 
first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . To 
establish eligibility for U.S. permanent residence in this category, petitioners must demonstrate 
"sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" recognizing their 
achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not meet preliminary evidentiary requirements for the requested immigrant visa 
category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director undervalued evidence. He also submits 
new documentation and asserts his satisfaction of evidentiary criteria not previously raised before the 
Director. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has not satisfied the preliminary evidentiary requirements . We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing a noncitizen among 
the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Filipino native and Canadian citizen, has a doctoral degree in 
clinical psychology, master's degrees in nursing and community health, and more than 14 years of 
clinical nursing experience. He works as a mental health nurse practitioner for U.S. healthcare 
facilities, providing autism care to medically underserved and uninsured communities. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international 
award. He must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to meet three requirements. But the Director found insufficient 
evidence that he: 
• received lesser prizes or awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• was a member of associations requiring outstanding achievements under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii); or 
• made original contributions of major significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's findings regarding his receipt of lesser prizes or 
awards, and his membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements. 
A. Lesser Prizes or A wards 
This standard requires "[ d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). USCIS 
first confirms that a petitioner -as opposed, for instance, to their employer -received the awards. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Agency then 
considers whether the prizes are in the petitioner's field and nationally or internationally recognized. 
Id. Other relevant considerations include: the awards' national or international significance; the 
number of recipients; and limitations on competitors. Id. 
1 Tfthe ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
To meet this requirement, the Petitioner submitted proof ofhis national nurse practitioner certifications 
in the fields offamily medicine and psychiatry-mental health from the American Nurses Credentialing 
Center (ANCC) and his family nurse practitioner certification from The American Academy of Nurse 
Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB). On appeal, he contends that the Director disregarded 
the certifications' significance, which he states represent "the pinnacle ofprofessional achievement in 
nursing." 
As the Director found, however, the record does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of these 
certifications for "excellence" in the field. Rather, documentation from the issuing organizations' 
websites indicate that the certifications reflect only basic nursing competency. The ANCC website 
states that the certifications received by the Petitioner are "competency-based examination[ s] that 
provide[] valid and reliable assessment[ s] of the entry-level clinical knowledge and skills" needed in 
the fields. ANCC, "Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certification," 
www .nursingworld.org/ our-certifications/psychiatric-mental-health-nurse-practitioner/; "Family 
Nurse Practitioner Certification,'' www.nursingworld.org/our-certifications/family-nurse-practitioner/ 
(emphasis added). Similarly, the AANPCB website describes the organization's family nurse 
practitioner certification as "an entry-level competency-based examination that tests clinical 
knowledge in family/individual across the life span." AANPCB, "Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP)," 
www.aanpcert.org/certs/fnp ( emphasis added). Thus, the record indicates the Petitioner's receipt of 
the certifications for basic nursing competence, not for excellence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding regarding this 
evidentiary requirement. 
B. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievements 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for 
which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). A petitioner must show that, to obtain membership in an association, recognized 
national or international experts judged the noncitizen as having attained outstanding achievements in 
the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ). Thus, under this criterion, memberships 
based on educational level, years of experience, fee payments, or employment in certain occupations 
do not qualify. Id. 
In claiming satisfaction of this standard, the Petitioner submitted copies of his nurse practitioner and 
registered nursing certificates from the California and Arizona boards of registered nursing. 2 As the 
Director found, however, the record does not identify the boards as associations with members or as 
the issuers of certificates based on experts' judgments of outstanding achievements in the nursing 
field. Rather, the record indicates that all nurse practitioners and registered nurses in California and 
Arizona must obtain the certificates to legally practice in the states. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 32-1601 (23); 
2 According to the American Nurses Association (ANA), nurse practitioners not only require Ii censure as registered nurses, 
they must also have master's degrees or doctorates in nursing and often national certification. ANA, "Three Types of 
Nurses and What They Do," www.nursingworld.org/practice-policy/workforce/what-is-nursing/types-of-nurses/. Nurse 
practitioners can also prescribe certain medications and, in some states, operate their own practices. Id. 
3 
Cal. Bus. & Prof Code§ 2835.5. Thus, nurses can obtain the certificates even ifthey lack outstanding 
achievements in their field. Also, the Petitioner has not established that the certificates grant him 
membership on the state boards or in nursing associations, or that the boards consist of recognized 
national or international nursing experts who judged him to have attained outstanding nursing 
achievements. See Goncharov v. Allen, Civil Action No. 3:21-CV-1372-B, 2022 WL 17327304, *5 
(N.D. Tex. Nov. 29, 2022) (holding that "[n]o reasonable analysis could conclude" that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) is satisfied without evidence of "associations which grant memberships"). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his membership in associations requiring outstanding nursing 
achievements as judged by experts in the field. We will therefore also affirm the Director's finding 
regarding this evidentiary requirement. 
C. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
Under this requirement, petitioners must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy ofa research paper that he wrote as a doctoral project, focusing on treating 
patients with borderline personality disorder. The Director found insufficient evidence that the paper had 
major significance in the nursing field by, for example, provoking widespread commentary or receiving 
more citations in relation to others' work in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's finding. Thus, he has eflectively waived 
review of this issue, and the Director's finding of insufficient evidence stands. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A­
S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); see also Rizk v. Holder, 629 F.3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 
2011) ( deeming issues omitted from a brief to be waived). 
The Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal, contending that he meets additional evidentiary 
requirements that he did not raise before the Director in either the initial filing or in response to the 
Director's request for additional evidence (RFE). But, as the record shows his receipt of notice and an 
opportunity to submit the claims and evidence in response to the RFE, we decline to consider the new 
materials and issues on appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the preliminary evidentiary requirements for the 
requested immigrant visa category. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet the evidentiary requirements, we -like the Director -will not perform 
a final merits analysis. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not 
make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an 
applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested benefit). 
The Petitioner seeks classification in a highly restrictive immigrant visa category intended for 
noncitizens at the very top of their respective fields. He has not sufficiently demonstrated his receipt 
4 
of national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the nursing field. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 28821261 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a supplemental horse trainer, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary 's receipt or a major, internationally recognized award or satisfaction of at 
least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) also allows 
a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, although the Petitioner 
claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for four categories of evidence, the Director concluded the 
Petitioner only demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for one criterion, leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), in which she must meet at least three. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that the Director did not consider its request to consider comparable evidence under the claimed 
criteria. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(4) provides that "[i]f the above standards do not apply to the 
beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's 
eligibility." USCIS determines if the evidence submitted is comparable to the evidence required in 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 This regulatory provision provides petitioners the opportunity to submit 
comparable evidence to establish the person's eligibility, ifit is determined that the evidentiary criteria 
described in the regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. When evaluating such 
comparable evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to 
the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria 
listed in that regulation. A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not 
readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative. Similarly, general claims that USCIS 
should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. However, a statement from 
the petitioner can be sufficient to establish whether a criterion is readily applicable if that statement is 
detailed, specific, and credible. Although officers do not consider comparable evidence where a 
particular criterion is readily applicable to the person's occupation, a criterion need not be entirely 
inapplicable to the person's occupation. Rather, the officer considers comparable evidence if the 
petitioner shows that a criterion is not easily applicable to the person's job or profession. 3 
1 The Petitioner also claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
2 
We agree with the Petitioner. At both initial filing and in response to the Director's request for 
evidence, the Petitioner made arguments for the Beneficiary's eligibility under the claimed criteria 
based on comparable evidence. However, the Director's decision does not reflect the Director 
considered the Petitioner's comparable evidence arguments or explained why comparable evidence 
claims could not be evaluated. 4 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to determine whether the Petitioner first 
established that any of the claimed criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. If so, 
then the Director must determine whether the evidence is truly comparable to the claim criteria. 
Furthermore, if the Director concludes that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the categories, then 
the Director must evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 
See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 There is no comparable evidence for the one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 02, 2023 In Re: 28694367 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 1 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 Appeals filed by representatives must contain a new, properly executed Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as 
Attorney or Accredited Representative. 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a). At the time of filing the appeal, the Petitioner provided a 
copy of a prior Form G-28 for! Ipre-dating the appeal. We sent a notice advising the Petitioner that since 
the appeal did not contain a new Form G-28, we must treat the appeal as self-represented . The record does not contain a 
response from the Petitioner to our notice. Because this appeal does not contain a new Form G-28, we consider it to be 
self-represented . 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found in his decision that the Petitioner did not 
meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets seven of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that he does not meet the requisite three criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested classification. 
In addition to his brief and evidence previously submitted into the record, the Petitioner also submits 
new evidence in support of his claimed criteria. Further, the Petitioner makes an additional eligibility 
claim that was never argued or presented before the Director in this proceeding. Specifically, for the 
first time on appeal, the Petitioner contends that he fulfills the criterion relating to high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).3 Accordingly, we will not consider new eligibility claims or evidence in 
2 The Director indicated in his request for evidence that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vii), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, but did not mention this criterion 
in his decision. 
3 Prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner provided copies of invoices and proposals for murals he painted for a 
member ofthe Qatari royal family, as evidence of the acclaim his work has received for having been "exhibited throughout 
2 
our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.4 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on the following: 
• 5th prize, Award (Drawing, Calligraphy, Printmaking category)-12th 
(2019); 
• 2nd place -I IFoundation,~! -~!Horse Painting Competitio n,~!-~ 
International Arabian Horse Festival (2022); 
• 3rd place -._________ __.Foundation,! IPainting Competition,~!-~ 
F es ti val (2017) 5 
As noted, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on his 5th prize, '.__ ____ ~_ ____. Award at the 
12th I I held in 2019. However, the record lacks sufficient objective evidence 
regarding the I IA ward to establish that it is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the visual arts. A letter from the exhibition's director 
indicates the exhibition is sponsored by the Italian Ministry of Culture and is "the major contemporary 
art and design exhibition inl I' and "an outstanding showcase ofthe international contemporary 
art and design production." The letter provides that the Petitioner was awarded the prize for his I I art project. 
Additional information from the 2019 ~-----~ website provides the exhibition has "over 
500 artists from more than 70 countries," but does not indicate the criteria used to grant the prizes or 
awards or the number of awardees or prize recipients. Further, the only background information 
the world" and in "numerous private collections." However, he did not previously articulate a claim that he can satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary, or other 
significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the same field. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
5 The Petitioner does not ursue his revious claim that his recei t of 3rd lace at I II 0 (2017) 
2nd lace at the and 2nd place at the ~I----~I ~-------~(2015) are qualifying awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
provided was about the exhibition (not the award), was sourced from the organizer, and does not 
establish that the winners receive recognition that extends beyond the awarding organization. It is the 
recognition that the award receives in the field on a broader level, beyond the issuing organization or 
event, that determines whether it satisfies that element of this criterion. For the above reasons, the 
submitted documentation does not establish that the~-------~Award in this exhibition is 
a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
Regarding the awards the Petitioner received from the I I Foundation, he 
provided an article dated 2018 from Cnn.com about thel Icomplex of"galleries, 
theaters and concert halls which hosts a year-round program of exhibitions, performances, and 
festivals." He did not provide any documentary evidence related to the exhibitions or competitions at 
which he received these awards in support ofhis claim that the awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized. The Director concluded, and we agree, that simply providing evidence of his receipt of 
an award certificate is insufficient to demonstrate the award's national or international recognition for 
excellence in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a certificate of appreciation for his "valuable contribution" to Qatar 
Sustainability Week 2021, and certificates of participation in the Qatar Fine Arts Association 
"Realistic Art Workshop and Competition" held in 2018 and "the drawing activities" ofNational Day 
201 7. The evidence does not establish, however, that a certificate of appreciation or participation is 
an "award or prize for excellence" in the field. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that his prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Accordingly, we conclude that he did not 
demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 6 The 
Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the Qatar Fine Arts 
Association (QF AA). As explained below, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
has not shown that the association has sufficiently restrictive membership requirements. 
In support ofhis claim that membership in QF AA satisfies the regulatory requirements ofthis criterion, 
the Petitioner provided a letter from QFAA chairman Y-K-A-S- that states that the Petitioner "has 
been exhibited in QFAA since 2015." He explains that "only Qatari artists are official members" and 
the Petitioner, as a non-Qatari artist, "is an honorary member entitled to participate in annual art 
activities of the QF AA." He provides that the basis for membership in the QF AA is "creative activity 
and individual creativity of professional creative workers, the result of which is work or its 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
interpretation that has cultural and artistic value, works that have independent creative significance 
and have gained public recognition, participation of artists in the city and international exhibitions." 
Further, the letter states that the selection committee "in its majority consists of all the visual arts team 
members based on thel IFoundation,I I Affairs Department." On appeal, 
the Petitioner provides that "the administration of [QF AA] did not respond to our inquiry. 
Nevertheless, the fact of membership in a prestigious national organization can be confirmed by 
publications, catalogs, and awards." 
While we have considered the letter from Y-K-A-S-, we agree with the Director that his statements 
are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the QF AA requires prospective members to demonstrate 
"outstanding achievements" as a condition of admission. First, we note that the letter is unsigned and 
has limited probative value. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how artistic work "that has 
cultural and artistic value, independent creative significance, and gained public recognition" or artists 
who have participated in city and international exhibitions reflects outstanding achievements 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The letter's statements are broad and are not accompanied by any supporting evidence regarding the 
QF AA or its membership requirements, such as information from its website regarding membership 
and the application process, or its constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding 
the selection criteria and process for becoming an "honorary member." Furthermore, the letter does 
not indicate whether recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding achievements 
for membership, as required by the regulation. 7 For all the reasons discussed, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him and 
relating to his work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material. The record reflects that the Petitioner has submitted several 
articles and in-depth interviews that are about him and relating to his work, and which also include the 
required author, title, and date of publication. 8 Those items were published in Gulf Times, Gulf­
times.com, The Peninsula, S.thepeninsula.qa, and Travel To Art. Therefore, the remaining issue is 
whether the Petitioner established that any of the referenced articles or interviews were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 9 
7 Id. 
8 Other articles, published in LandEscape Contemporary Art Review, Landescapeart.yolasite.com, Boomer, Bmyspil 
Magazine, s.thepeninsula.qa, and gulf-times.com do not include a date and author, and therefore do not satisfy the criterion. 
In addition, an article from Gui 'Times dated I 12016, about a group exhibition of Ukrainian artists that includes the 
petitioner at the.__ ______ --J is about the exhibition and is not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about 
the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
9 See generalzv 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (instructing that in evaluating whether a submitted publication 
5 
In the request for evidence, the Director advised the Petitioner that each article submitted to satisfy 
this criterion should include: the title, date and author of the published material; the circulation (online 
and/or in print) of the publication in which it appeared; and comparative circulation data for major 
publications. Within his response, the Petitioner submitted online printouts from 
Thepeninsulaqatar.com, which indicate that the website has "over 65 million pageviews in 2020" and 
"is the top news website -in both English and Arabic -in Qatar." The information provided from the 
preceding website is not sufficient to demonstrate that the online version of the publication qualifies 
as major media. USCIS need not rely on self-serving assertions. 10 The Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient comparative circulation, readership, or viewership data to support his claim that he and his 
work have been featured in major media or major trade publications . 
The Petitioner also provided online printouts from Gulf-times.com that do not indicate the 
publication's circulation (on-line or in print); only that The Gulf Times "comprises several sections: 
editorial, analysis, news, economy, sports, library and archives, technical and local reporters." In light 
of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but also that the contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner, citing to his I I art project (also referred to in the record as 1 t 
.___________ ___.,, indicates that the influence ofhis work beyond his "employers, clients 
or customers is reflected in the involvement of numerous individuals from different countries, diverse 
social groups, and interests, including artists, musicians, politicians, students, and many others 
participating in the project." The record reflects that since 2016 the Petitioner through his I I 
project has[ lwith which he then 
creates art. In addition to other evidence related to his artistic projects, the Petitioner has provided 
letters from colleagues who praise his abilities as a visual artist. 11 However , the submitted letters do 
not contain sufficient information to establish how he has made an original contribution that has 
remarkably influenced or impacted the field. 
is a professional publication , major trade publication , or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation , readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
10 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) afj'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding 
that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). 
11 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one in determining whether 
the submitted evidence satisfies this criterion. 
6 
For instance, A-S-, an art consultant, indicates she met the Petitioner in Qatar in 2011 while organizing 
art auctions and exhibitions of international and regional art. She provides that the Petitioner was 
invited to paint a portrait of members of the Qatari ruling family and to decorate their residences with 
frescoes. She claims the I I project "started a wide social art movement~ I I in which 
"[ m Jany notable contemporaries including the royal family members, politicians, businessmen, 
ambassadors, scientist s , athletes, artists, and musicians visited [ the Petitioner's] studio to leave their 
,______________________ ...-art project." She asserts that "[a]ll the 
collected messares have been incorporated into the impressive artwork currently in the private 
collection ofthe....L________ ____,~' 
K-W-, a museum director and entrepreneur, states that the Petitioner's "project, t has 
received significant recognition and praise from notable figures, including the royal family of Qatar 
... who have visited his exhibitions and were very enthusiastic." He claims that the Petitioner "has 
contributed significantly to the contemporary art scene in the Arab world and beyond" and his 
"innovative techniques and exceptional skill have made him a recognized figure in the art world." 
The letters ofA-S-and K-W-indicate the originality ofthe Petitioner'sl Iproject, but the actual 
impact of his project on the wider field, or even within the Qatari artistic community, has not been 
established. In addition, while offering very high praise, K-W-does not explain how the Petitioner 
contributed to the art scene at an international level or indicate how his innovative artistic techniques 
or exceptional skill have impacted other artists. 
V-S-, the president of the Academy of Arts, confirms that the Petitioner presented 
an exhibition of hisl lart project in 2018 at thel lof the Arts, and asserts that the 
Petitioner "belongs to the circle of persons capable of introducing new ideas into the professional 
sphere." 
T-K, a candidate of art history, and A-V-who has worked with several art galleries, indicate they have 
known the Petitioner since 201 7 and praise his I I project. T-K states that "[b ]uilding upon the 
the participants transform them into a symbol of achieving significant ~----------~ personal and social goals." A-V-indicates that the project "brings together a diverse group of people 
from different communities, each unique in their mode of thought,I I uniting a collective force in a manifestation of art's._m_1-.s-s1-·o_n_fo_r_h-um_a_n-it-y-an_d_p_e_a_c~e 
around the world." But they do not provide sufficient, specific information that would support a 
finding that the Petitioner made an original contribution ofmajor significance in his field. Further, we 
note that the letter from A-V-is unsigned and has limited probative value. 
Submitted letters should specifically describe the Petitioner's contribution and its significance to the 
field. Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his work has had on the overall field. USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is regarded by his colleagues as a talented artist and demonstrates 
that he has achieved some recognition by participating in gallery exhibitions and through his original I !project. However, the record does not establish that he has already influenced or impacted 
the field at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance. For the reasons 
7 
discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that his work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. He has therefore established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the display criterion, he does not meet any additional 
criteria on appeal regarding awards, membership, published material, and original contributions. 
While he claims eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 12 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 2, 2023 In Re: 28650651 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
"not established an actual working relationship with I !' 1 The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
1 This conclusion in not a proper legal basis for denying the petition. The Director's determination is not based on the 
pertinent statute and regulations for the classification sought. 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 2 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 3 
In the appeal brief, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision erred in not addressing the 
Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act 
and the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(l)-(5). We agree with the Petitioner. For 
instance, the Director's decision did not determine if the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, or satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
With the a}peal, the Petitioner presents evidence of the Beneficiary's past working relationship with I prior to his death inl l For example, the Petitioner provides aO2020 article 
in ProPublica, which states: 
The Beneficia a few thousand dollars a iece to 
But 
what [the Beneficia wanted to ta e on 2019, wasn't the usual ~---~ 
infomercial. ~-----------~ 
Everyone has a different story about how [the Beneficiary] andC7 first met. [The 
Beneficia!Y] told an Israeli magazine that formerl I 
sentOa letter of introduction. said he had "no memory of that at all," adding 
that a former introduced them. 
~---------' told ProPublica that he introduced them at [ the Beneficiary's] 
request around 2011. 
Regardless, "I liked him right away,"LJsaid in a 2017 interview with an Israeli 
outlet. "Then we forged this kind of partnership and investment firm." 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by the petitioner objectively meets the parameters ofthe regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (stating that in the final merits dete1mination, USCIS officers 
should ·'[ e ]valuate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety for the final merits determination, 
in the context of the high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification"). 
2 
[The Beneficiary] is variousl described in Israeli news articles and on his Facebook 
a e as resident of '; and 
._____________ _." ProPublica could find no such entities, and D 
said they don't exist. [The Beneficiary] said he made up the names "to describe what 
we are doing." 
"He was obviously playing off my name," D said. "I did sign a few things with the 
[Beneficiary], but they went away because the business went out. . . . I said, sure I'll 
help. And then suddenly it was gone. Then he'd have another thing, and it was gone. 
He's a wheeler-dealer, but I felt sorry for him. I never envisioned him hurting anyone. 
But I certainly don't like him using my name without my authority. It's dangerous, 
what he's doing." 
In 2012, [the Beneficiary] and D co-founded ,____________ ___. m 
California, according to archived versions of its website. It aimed to develop digital 
platforms and content, and is no longer active. "He is an amateur bad businessperson 
with an ambition to gain notoriety just through the networking but not necessarily 
understanding how to launch products," said I I the group's former head of 
marketing. 
The article in ProPublica does not portray the Beneficiary as having sustained national or international 
acclaim in business or a level or a level of expertise rendering him among the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of his field, but we conclude that this article, as well as other corroborating 
evidence in the record, is sufficient to show that the Beneficiary had a past business relationship with I l The Petitioner has therefore overcome the Director's sole basis for denial of the petition. 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther 
review and entry of a new decision. The Director should consider all the evidence and determine if 
the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, or satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If the Beneficiary meets either of these 
initial evidence requirements, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated 
the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 4, 2024 In Re: 34867782 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tax lawyer, requests classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-
1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . Successful petitioners for 
U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and extensively document their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary requirements -two less than needed for a final merits 
determination . On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he also satisfied evidentiary criteria regarding: 
• His membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members; 
• Published material about him and his work in his field; 
• His original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• His performance in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (v), (viii). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he met the evidentiary criteria regarding published material about him and 
original contributions of major significance. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for a final merits determination consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either standard, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at their field's very top. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 
2022) (finding USCIS' two-step analysis of extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing 
statute and regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Argentinian native and citizen, earned a law degree in his 
home country in 1998. The following year, he established his own firm, specializing in tax law. 
Argentinian universities later awarded him a specialization in financial and tax law and a postgraduate 
degree in tax law. 
Since coming to the United States in 2021, the Petitioner has completed additional studies. Earlier 
this year, a U.S. university awarded him a master's degree in American and transnational law. The 
Petitioner states that he eventually wants to establish his own tax law firm in the United States. 
The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner demonstrated his intent to continue 
working in his field in the United States and that his U.S. immigration would substantially benefit the 
country. See Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii), (iii) of the Act. But he still must establish his purported 
extraordinary ability in his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Petitioner does not claim -nor does the record indicate -his receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Thus, to establish extraordinary ability, he must meet 
at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
Evidence supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner met the evidentiary requirement regarding 
his participation as a judge of others' work in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We will now 
review the additional evidentiary criteria he claims to have met. The Petitioner's evidence must 
objectively satisfy the parameters of the applicable regulatory description. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
B. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the [ noncitizen] in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to [their] work in the field for which classification is 
sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
When adjudicating this requirement, users first determines whether published material relates to a 
petitioner and their specific work in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). If 
so, the Agency then determines whether a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). When 
evaluating publications and media, relevant factors include: for professional and major trade 
publications, the intended audience; and, for major trade publications and other major media, the 
relative circulation, readership, or viewership. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted authenticated copies of newspaper articles about court cases he handled. He 
also provided evidence that a court in the Argentinian province where he lived posted decisions on a 
judicial website, including 55 of his cases. The Director, however, found insufficient evidence that 
the materials related to the Petitioner's work in the tax law field or that the publications qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first contends that the Director erred in stating that "the Petitioner failed to 
submit evidence showing that materials have been published about [him] relating to [his] work in the 
field of tax law as a whole." To meet this criterion, published material must mention a petitioner and 
substantially discuss their work in their field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1) ("[P]ublished 
material that ... includes a substantial discussion ofthe person's work in the field and mentions [them] 
in connection to the work may be considered material about [them] relating to [their] work.") 
A copy of a list of the Petitioner's cases published on the judicial website does not meet the criterion. 
Contrary to users policy, the published material excludes the cases' written decisions and thus does 
not mention him. But he provided copies of decisions of two of the listed cases. The two decisions 
mention the Petitioner and discuss arguments that he made in those tax-related cases. Thus, contrary 
to the Director's finding, we find that these two publications mention him and relate to his work in the 
tax law field. 
Also, as the Petitioner argues, a preponderance of the evidence identifies the provincial, judicial 
website as a professional publication. Under this criterion, qualifying media include "[p ]rofessional 
or major online publications regarding the person and the person's work." 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(8)(1) (emphasis added). "[P]rofessional and trade journals are read by those of particular skill 
in particular professions or trades and are less commonly read by the populace at large." Braga v. 
Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO (FMOx), 2007 WL 9229758, *6 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 
317 Fed.Appx. 680 (9th Cir. Mar. 9, 2009). The record shows that a court selected the cases published 
on the judicial website based on their legal importance and that legal professionals, rather than "the 
populace at large," primarily viewed them. Thus, the judicial website qualifies as a professional 
publication. 
3 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner provided published material about himself 
in a professional online publication, relating to his work in his field. We will therefore withdraw the 
Director's contrary finding. 
C. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit"[ e ]vidence ofthe [ non citizen]' s original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has made original contributions in their field. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). If so, the Agency then considers whether those contributions 
have major significance in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies ofnewspaper articles and letters from others in his field. The materials 
indicate that his work as a tax lawyer resulted in repeals of, and changes to, tax regulations. The 
Director, however, found insufficient evidence that these original contributions had major significance 
in his field. The Director stated: 
While the evidence shows that the Petitioner is a professional in the tax field and has 
made original contributions to [his] [p]rovince ..., the record does not establish that 
[his] work had a remarkable impact or influence in the field of tax law as a whole .... 
The submitted evidence does not demonstrate that [his work] ha[ s] provoked a level of 
commentary or generated a degree of attention that meets the major significance 
threshold. 
The Petitioner argues that the Director overlooked evidence of his work's significance. He states that 
he "filed tax claims that no one presented before and after the judges considered the evidence and the 
situation, they ruled in favor of the taxpayers giving a new vision of the law of tax and the rights of 
taxpayers." He states that "a case must be really important for the deputies to decide to vote to modify 
the tax rule."2 
Contrary to the Director's finding, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner's work had 
significance beyond his province. Newspaper articles about his work indicate the national scope of 
one of the repealed tax regulations. Also, a letter from a former deputy states that, after the Petitioner 
won the case regarding the regulation, the pair traveled to other Argentinian provinces to encourage 
other taxpayers to contest the regulation. Further, as the Petitioner argues, the case -the first of its 
kind brought in Argentina -provided guidance to judges and attorneys around the country. Also, the 
record shows that the regulation's repeal, which required businesses to buy special equipment to file 
their tax returns, came during a time of financial crisis for many Argentinian businesses. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner sufficiently provided evidence of original contributions of 
major significance in his field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
2 The record shows that, similar to Congresspeople in the U.S. House of Representatives, deputies in Argentina represent 
constituents in that country's lower congressional house. 
4 
E. Remaining Issues 
The Petitioner has met the required amount of evidentiary criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
(requiring a petitioner to meet at least three initial evidentiary requirements). We therefore reserve 
consideration of his arguments as to the criteria regarding membership in associations and 
performance in a leading or critical role. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the petition. The Director did not make this 
finding. Rather than make such a determination in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether his achievements have been recognized in his field, identifying him as one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(2). The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, even it does 
not fit one of the regulatory criteria or is not comparable evidence. Id. The petition's approval or 
denial should stern from the evidence's type and quality. Id. The Petitioner bears the burden of 
explaining the evidence's significance, and how it demonstrates his possession of sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognition in his field. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of published material about himself and his original contributions 
of major significance in his field. USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the petition. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18334469 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The matter is 
now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner must 
specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our 
decision. 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or establish that he has received a major internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Prior to the denial of the petition, and on appeal, the Petitioner claimed that he could 
satisfy three of the ten criteria, relating to original contributions of major significance, leading or critical 
roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation, or high salary or other remuneration in relation 
to others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii) and (ix). The Director determined that he did 
not satisfy any of the claimed criteria and denied the petition. 
In dismissing the Petitioner's a1;eal, we concluded that he had demonstrated that he performed in a 
critical role with thel ., I and established the distinguished reputation of that 
organization, thereby satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, we agreed with 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that he satisfies 
the two remaining claimed criteria, and therefore he did not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for 
this classification. 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence is sufficient to demonstrate 
that he satisfies up to five of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
two criteria that he did not address or claim he could meet previously. Specifically, he now claims that 
he can meet the criteria relating to memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, 
2 
and published materials in professional, major trade publications, or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
These new eligibility claims are not properly before us on a motion to reconsider. A motion does not 
entail de nova review of the full record of proceeding. To warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must 
specify the issues raised on appeal that were decided in error, by establishing errors of law or policy ( as 
documented by any relevant precedent decisions or other cited law or policy) or errors of fact (through a 
showing the decision was incorrect based on the record as it stood at the time of the prior decision). 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3); Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). The Petitioner has not 
established how we erred as a matter of fact, law, or policy by failing to consider eligibility claims that 
he did not make at the time of filing and that were not before us on appeal. Therefore, we will not address 
the Petitioner's claim that he can satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
The Petitioner also contests our determination that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to 
demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires him to establish 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to 
others in his field. In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the I ~ 
\ !summarizing his financial terms of service as a senior representative of thd 
[inl !Russia between August 2009 and August 2015.1 The letter indicates that he 
received monthly gross wages of $6000, as well as up to $300 in monthly representative fees, $2300 in 
monthly rent expenses, an "education fund," and "children education funding at the race of service." 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that his children's private school inl billed thel I I O ~ for their 2014-2015 school year tuition and fees. Finally, the Petitioner provided data 
regarding "Average Russian NGO Salaries" from Simply Hired, which indicates an average annual salary 
of $25,000.2 
We determined that the evidence was insufficient to satisfy this criterion for several reasons. First, we 
emphasized that, in order to establish that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration, the Petitioner must provide documentary evidence of his actual earnings. We noted that 
the letter from thd I was insufficient to document his earnings for his period of 
employment in Russia. Specifically, we note that it was not accompanied by earnings statements, payroll 
or bank records, tax documentation or other evidence demonstrating the total salary or total remuneration 
he received from his employer during his period of employment in Russia. 
We also concluded that, even if the Petitioner had adequately documented his total earnings from that 
period, he did not submit sufficient comparative data to establish that he had commanded a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others. We reviewed the evidence he provided regarding 
1 We observed in our prior decision that the letter from the.__ _______ __, indicates that the Petitioner received 
the stated compensation package as a senior representative in Russia from August 2009 until August 2015. However, 
other evidence in the record, including the Petitioner's resume and the employment history he provided on his concrrentlyl 
filed Form T-485, AVplication to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Statu. s, indicates that he worked for the 
~-----~inl I only from January 2014 until August 2015, and was based in other countries prior to 
2014. The Petitioner has not attempted to resolve this apparent inconsistency on motion. 
2 The record also contains documentation of the Petitioner's earnings in the United States for 2017; however. we 
determined that the record did not demonstrate that he earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration based 
on this evidence. He does not address his U.S.-based earnings on motion. 
3 
"average Russian NGO salaries" from Simply Hired and noted that the publisher of the data 
acknowledged that such salaries "can vary greatly." We also emphasized that the data from Simply Hired 
did not include information regarding high salaries in the field as a point of comparison, noting that it is 
not sufficient for the Petitioner to demonstrate that his salary was "above average" compared to all persons 
working in any type of position for an NGO in Russia. 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that the letter from the~---------~is sufficient to 
establish that he received a total monthly remuneration of $13,425 per month or $161,100 annually, for a 
period of six years, from August 2009 until August 2015. He cites to an unpublished AAO decision in 
support of his assertion that a letter from an individual's employer has been deemed sufficient to 
document earnings under this eligibility criterion. The decision he references was not published as a 
precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may 
be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Further, although the Petitioner asserts that we deemed a letter from an 
employer to be acceptable evidence of a petitioner's earnings, we ultimately determined that the petitioner 
in the cited matter had not adequately documented her actual salary. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that we erred as a matter oflaw or USCIS policy by finding the letter from the ~---------~ to be insufficient to document his salary or total remuneration for the period in question. 
The Petitioner also contests our determination that the evidence he provided regarding "average Russian 
NGO salaries" did not provide sufficient comparative data to establish that he earned a high salary or 
significantly high total remuneration relative to others in his field. The Petitioner emphasizes that he 
was not able to locate any other source of data regarding NGO executive salaries in Russia, noting that 
"[ u ]nlike the United States, Israel and most European countries, Russia does not have a Department of 
Labor that publishes government-sourced information on salaries in various fields or industries." He 
states that it was "not reasonable or equitable" for USCIS to make an adverse decision regarding this 
criterion based on the lack of quality data on comparable salaries. Finally, the Petitioner maintains that 
his annual remuneration of $161,000, as reflected in the letter from his employer, "is a high 
compensation for an NGO executive anywhere in the world." 
If a petitioner claims to meet this criterion, then the burden is on that petitioner to provide appropriate 
evidence. The plain language of this regulatory criterion requires evidence of "a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." Therefore, it is 
reasonable to expect the Petitioner to submit objective earnings data showing that he has earned a 
"high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing similar work. 
See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). Further, persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in that country. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
While the Petitioner maintains that he submitted the only salary information available for "NGO 
executives" in Russia, the information he provided is not for executive positions, but rather appears to 
4 
be an average salary that is based on all data available for NGO positions, including lower-level 
positions. Further the data is accompanied by a note from the publisher indicating there is great 
variation in salaries within the Russian NGO field based on company, location, industry, and 
experience. The Petitioner has not cited to any law, USCIS policy or precedent decision that would 
require us to compare his total remuneration of $161,000 (most of which was paid in benefits) as an 
NGO executive to an average base salary that includes every type of NGO position. While the base 
salary figure provided in the letter from thel I ($72,000 annually) is higher 
than the average salary figure provided in the data from Simply Hired, that data is not specific to 
experienced professionals working in senior positions in the Petitioner's field and does not provide an 
appropriate basis for comparison. 
Further, the Petitioner claims that he earned total compensation of $161,000 for a period of six years and 
that this is a high compensation for a comparable position in his field "anywhere in the world." This 
broad assertion is not supported by sufficient evidence and does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden to 
demonstrate that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As noted above, there are 
inconsistencies in the record as to where the Petitioner worked between 2009 and 2015. Ifhe did in fact 
work in countries other than Russia during this period, as stated in his resume and on his Form 1-485, he 
could have submitted comparative salary data from those countries. The comparative salary data 
provided for Russia was inadequate to demonstrate that his salary or total remuneration was high 
compared to similarly employed workers in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in determining that he did not satisfy the eligibility criterion at 8 
C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner contests our determination that the previously submitted 
evidence was insufficient to establish that he meets the criterion related to original contributions of 
major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, even if we determined that he meets that 
criterion, he could not establish that he meets the initial evidence requirement for this classification by 
satisfying at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore would not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of his appeal. Accordingly, we will reserve this issue. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or USCIS policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of 
that decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 5, 2024 In Re: 34250618 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jiu-jitsu athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner , a jiu-jitsu athlete, has competed in national and international jiu-jitsu competitions. 
The Director determined 
that the Petitioner is not the recipient of a one-time achievement that is a 
major, internationally recognized award, and the Petitioner does not contest this determination on 
appeal. As such, the issue to be addressed in this matter is whether the Petitioner established that he 
satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Petitioner claims that he meets the elements of four of these criteria, which are summarized below: 
• (i), Recipient of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner ; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance . 
The Director determined, and we agree, that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence that he was a 
recipient of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award, thereby satisfying the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The remaining issue is whether the Petitioner satisfied at least two of the 
three remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) -(v). We find that he did not and will address 
two of these criteria in the discussion below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
First, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) , which requires evidence ofpublished 
material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In 
denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner 's submission ofpublished articles about 
him in Jits Magazine and gracie.com. However , the Director pointed out that Jits Magazine no longer 
2 
exists after only 25 editions, and further highlighted gracie.com's low ranking and visitation statistics 
as an indication that the website does not fall within the category of major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter from _____ who identifies himself as the head 
instructor and owner of lin California and who recognizes Jits Magazine and Gracie 
Magazine for their "significant impact." Although Mr.I I claims that both publications "have 
been instrumental in promoting and advancing the sport of Jiu-Jitsu" and are "highly respected within 
our community," the Petitioner provides no evidence on appeal to address the Director's adverse 
findings, which highlight one publication's demise and the other publication's low ranking and 
visitation statistics. As such, the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's adverse determination 
regarding this criterion. 
Next, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner made an original contribution of major significance. Although the Director acknowledged 
a recommendation letter that describes the Petitioner's role as creator of a police training program, the 
Director noted that no evidence was submitted to show that the program was taught outside the specific 
business where the Petitioner taught the program or that the program is used by other law enforcement 
centers and that it is considered authoritative within the industry. Ultimately, the Director determined 
that the record lacked evidence showing that the Petitioner's training program is an original 
contribution of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on the letter from Mr. I I who mainly focuses on the 
Petitioner's success in jiu-jitsu competitions and refers to the Petitioner as "an exemplary figure in 
Jiu-Jitsu, whose dedication and expertise have greatly benefited our sport." However, Mr. I I 
does not state how the Petitioner has "greatly benefited" the world ofjiu-jitsu, and more importantly, 
he does not identify an original contribution that the Petitioner has made or state how the Petitioner 
has contributed in a way that can be deemed as being of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
B. Reserved Issues 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
which requires evidence that he participated as a judge over the work of others in his field. However, 
because the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets three ofthe four evidentiary criteria claimed 
on appeal, he would not establish that he met three out of ten criteria even if we considered his claims 
regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). As such, we need not determine whether he meets 
the requirements of this criterion, nor do we need to provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 6, 2024 In Re: 34612506 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art restorer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that: (1) the Petitioner had satisfied at least three often initial evidentiary criteria, as required; 
(2) she would continue working in her field of expertise in the United States, and (2) her entry will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner studied art restoration in Russia, earning certification as an art restorer, qualified to 
conserve and restore artworks from the 16th century and later. The Petitioner worked at the I 
Russia, as leader of the restoration 
department from 1981 to 2006 and as deputy director for scientific research from 2006 to 2020. She has 
been in the United States since she entered as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor in May 2022. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the first criterion, relating to prizes or awards. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has satisfied all eight claimed criteria. 
Before we discuss the individual criteria, we note the Director's assertion that qualifying evidence 
must have existed at the time offiling. We agree that a petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). But the same regulation also requires that 
the petitioner must continue to meet those requirements throughout the adjudication of the petition. 
As such, evidence that originated after the filing date cannot establish eligibility at the time of filing, 
but could be relevant to establishing continued eligibility after the filing date. 
2 I 
Also, we agree with the Petitioner that much of the evidence that the Director declined to consider, 
submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE), actually dates from before the filing date, even 
if it was not yet in the record at the time of filing. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three other criteria, as 
discussed below. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner documented her membership on two "Expert Councils" of the Ministry of Culture of the 
Republic of Karelia. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted meeting minutes showing she 
participated in "[c ]onsideration of candidates for awards from the Government of the Republic ofKarelia 
to members of creative unions ... and personal awards ... for gifted students and graduate students." 
In the denial decision, the Director repeated the assertion that "the evidence does not show the petitioner 
actually reviewed any work or otherwise acted as a judge of the work of others." The Director 
acknowledged the Petitioner's submission ofunspecified evidence in response to the RFE, but stated that 
"[t]he evidence must have been in existence as of the date the petition was filed." As the Petitioner notes 
on appeal, the meeting minutes all date from 2016-2020, several years before the petition's May 2023 
filing date. 
The Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that she meets the requirements of the 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Scholarly articles include published 
conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences. Id. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged only one of the Petitioner's articles, which the Director 
determined does not qualify as scholarly because "[i]t appears that the [intended] audience may be the 
general public." 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director "erred by disregarding [the] other five 
(5) research articles authored by [the Petitioner]." Some ofthe Petitioner's published works appear to be 
from academic conferences, at least some of which were national rather than local or regional. 
The Director did not address these materials or explain why they do not satisfy the requirements of the 
criterion. We therefore withdraw this determination by the Director. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
3 
The Petitioner has restored numerous art works that went on to be displayed, usually at I The 
Director concluded: "The evidence does not establish that she created or developed the paintings because 
the petitioner restored the artwork and did not create them." 
We agree with the general principle that, when a painting is displayed, it is the work of the artist that is 
on display. But the record provides an important distinction. The Petitioner's initial filing included 
evidence about a 2005 exhibition at I I with a title variously translated as I I or ______ A 2005 article from the Russian online publication Museums ofRussia described 
this exhibition as being "dedicated to the work ofrestorers," specifically the Petitioner and a colleague at I I The record indicates that this exhibition focused on examples of restoration work, rather than 
paintings themselves. 
This 2005 exhibition appears to be sufficient to establish the display of the Petitioner's work at an 
artistic exhibition. 
Because the above discussion shows that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not discuss the other claimed criteria, and therefore reserve discussion 
on them. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence. The next 
step is to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her 
sustained national or international acclaim; that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor; and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. A final merits determination involves analyzing an individual's accomplishments and 
weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
We will remand the matter in order for the Director to make a final merits determination. 
In doing so, the Director must bear in mind that the determination involves consideration ofthe totality 
of the record, rather than simply re-evaluating the evidence submitted under each of the ten underlying 
criteria. The Director must determine whether the record as a whole shows that the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
Of particular concern in this case, the Director must consider the extent to which the Petitioner has 
achieved recognition at a national or international level. Evidence focusing on the Republic of KareIia 
may not be sufficient in this regard, because the Republic of Karelia is a political subdivision of the 
Russian Federation, rather than an independent nation in its own right. Therefore, recognition in the 
Republic of Karelia is not necessarily national or international acclaim. 
4 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that she "is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise" as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), and that her "entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States" 
as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. We will remand the matter because the Director 
did not adequately explain the basis for these conclusions. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states that a petitioner can establish their intention to continue 
in the area of expertise by submitting "a statement from the beneficiary detailing plans on how he or 
she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." The Petitioner submitted such a statement 
with the petition, expressing an intention to restore icons for Orthodox churches; consult on 
conservation, restoration, and authentication of tempera paintings; and create a college-level course 
on art restoration. The Director did not explain why these plans were not specific enough. Also, the 
Director did not address materials that the Petitioner submitted regarding the nature and purpose of art 
restoration, which may illuminate the question of how her work would benefit the United States. 
The Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, 
the Director has not met this requirement with respect to the Petitioner's intention to continue working 
in the area ofexpertise and prospective benefit to the United States. The Director must further consider 
these issues, and the arguments that the Petitioner made on appeal regarding them. If the Director 
again concludes that the Petitioner has not met these requirements, then the Director must more fully 
explain the reasons for that conclusion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We will remand the matter to the Director for a final merits determination, with particular attention to 
the issue of national or international rather than regional acclaim, and for further consideration of the 
issues of the Petitioner's plans to continue working in her area of expertise and prospective benefit to 
the United States. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 6, 2024 In Re: 34815814 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met five of these evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and authorship of scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director found the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the next step is to evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 1 he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and his achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation. 2 In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 3 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we 
conclude the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for this classification. 
The record includes a media article from ___ 2021 discussing the Petitioner's career m 
economics: 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that such acclaim must be 
maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a 
long period of time ... To persist in making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
2 In the final merits analysis, the Director's decision concluded the Petitioner did not show he garnered sustained national 
or international acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating he is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
2 
[The Petitioner] holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the _________ 
I He currently serves as the Deputy Director of the 
General Manager of the I I 
I ChiefI IResearcher, and Secretary-General of the I I 
_______ He has previously held positions as the Project Director of the 
Research Center for China's National Conditions at as well as the 
Director of Macroeconomics and Research Departments at 
I I [The Petitioner] has been recognized with titles such as the 
I in 2013. 
[The Petitioner] is also the President of the I I He 
serves as the Vice President of the I I 
Council Member of the and Committee Member 
of the Digital Economy Committee of the He has previously 
served as the Vice President and Research Institute Director of ______ 
Currently, he concurrently holds positions as an Academic Member ofthe International 
Monetary Institute at I I Chief Economist of the 
Iand I 
I as well as an Indenendent Director of listed comnanies such as I 
I 
In the decision denying the petition, the Director's final merits determination stated: 
USCIS notes that much of the evidence in the record pertains to the Petitioner's career 
as an economist, which extends approximately 10-15 years prior to the filing of this 
petition. While the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that 
[he] meets at least three of the antecedent evidentiary prongs, the evidence does not 
demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim. For all the criteria successfully 
met by the Petitioner the evidence provided appears to range for only a couple of years 
and does not show an extended date/period range. While this evidence establishes his 
national or international claim in the field at that time, the [Act] and relevant regulations 
require that an individual demonstrate sustained acclaim in order to qualify for an 
immigrant visa under this highly selective classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "[t]he Director, instead of considering the petition in its entirety, 
considered each criterion separately while disregarding certain submitted evidence and concluded that 
[the Petitioner] did not sustain national or international claim. The Director's conclusion is wrong 
both logically and factually." 
The Form I-140 petition in this matter was filed in December 2023. In determining whether an 
individual has enjoyed "sustained" national or international acclaim, we evaluate if such acclaim has 
3 
been maintained. 4 There is no definitive time frame on what constitutes sustained. 5 The Director's 
decision indicated that the Petitioner's career as an economist extended "approximately 10-15 years 
prior to the filing of this petition," but the record shows that he began publishing his work in 2002 and 
has since authored more than 100 scholarly articles as well as several books up until 2022. 6 The 
evidence of his achievements in their entirety demonstrates that his awards, media coverage, judging, 
original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, presentations, and leading roles encompass a 
career spanning over two decades in the economics field. 
We disagree with the Director's statement that "the evidence provided appears to range for only a 
couple of years and does not show an extended date/period range." In analyzing the evidence, the 
Director's decision erred in the final merits determination relating to the Petitioner's sustained acclaim 
by not evaluating "all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety."7 For 
example, the Director stated: "As far as evidence submitted by the Petitioner for a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence, all the awards won by the Petitioner range 
for a period of five years 2013 the 2018. No evidence was provided of awards won after this period. "8 
Likewise, the Director's final merits analysis evaluated the Petitioner's published material, judging, 
original contributions, and scholarly articles and concluded that each of these types of evidence 
individually did not show his sustained acclaim. 9 The Director's final merits determination, however, 
should have considered "all evidence in the totality." 10 
The totality of the evidence shows that the Petitioner has maintained his acclaim in the field over a 
long period of time. The documentation discussed above as well as additional corroborating evidence 
in the record sets the Petitioner apart from other economists through a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The petition in its entirety demonstrates that the Petitioner possesses a level 
of expertise consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor and that he has sustained national acclaim in his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(A)(l). supra. 
5 Id. 
6 The Petitioner presented his Google Scholar profile which indicates that his scholarly work has received hundreds of 
citations. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B). 
8 The Director's decision noted (on page 3), however, that the Petitioner received an award from the 
Iin September 2019 and the record includes evidence of this award. Accordingly, the Director's assertion that the 
Petitioner did not receive any awards after 2018 was in eITor. 
9 With respect to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles, the Director's decision stated that these articles were 
published "primarily between 2007 and 2009 with one additional article appearing in 2003." The Petitioner, however, 
presented additional scholarly articles and books as well as his Google Scholar profile showing that he authored numerous 
articles outside of those specific years. His Google Scholar profile lists his authorship of more than 100 scholarly articles 
from 2002 until 2022. Accordingly, the Director's assertion that the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles occutTed 
primarily in 2003 and 2007-2009 was incoITect. 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 I 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established 
that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim and that his achievements 
have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he 
intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22045843 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research associate employed by the I I 
I , I, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of I physics. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had submitted evidence meeting three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria listed under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), but that he did not present sufficient documentation showing his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrating that he was among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in the final merits determination. He 
maintains that he has established eligibility to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true, he or she has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec. 
at375-76. 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then the 
petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do 
not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that he or she is among the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010) ( discussing a two-part 
review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339(W.D. Wash.2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The evidence indicates that since 2018, the Petitioner has been employed as a research associate with 
the I in I Illinois, receiving an annual salary of approximately $65,000. According to 
an August 2021 letter from his employer, "[a]s a research associate, [the Petitioner] is responsible for 
understanding the of the ex eriment and develo ment of the 
algorithms to identify the events in I I which can be applied to and experiments." The 
Petitioner's curriculum vitae provides that atth , he "work s o experiments: I __ an 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of presenting 
documents that satisfied at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).2 
Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner offered evidence of his participation as a judge of 
the work of others, his authorship of scholarly articles in the field in professional publications, and his 
2 The Director concluded that the evidence did not show the Petitioner had received a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) discussed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
challenge this finding. 
2 
original scientific contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner satisfied the three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv)-(vi). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Based on the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence, we 
will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if his or her successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this case, the Petitioner has failed to 
demonstrate that he has attained the required level of acclaim and recognition in the field. As such, 
he has not established eligibility for the classification. 
While the Petitioner has offered documentation satisfying three of the ten initial evidence criteria, two 
of these criteria involve activities that appear to be routine among research scientists. The Petitioner's 
co-authorship of scholarly articles meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and his peer 
review of other scientists' manuscripts constitutes judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director also concluded that the Petitioner has made original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field of I physics based on his co-authorship of articles 
associated with large-scale collaborative research projects. However, the Petitioner has not specified 
the level of his involvement or the significance of his work among hundreds of researchers in these 
projects. 
To establish his standing in the field of I physics, the Petitioner relies heavily on the field's 
response, including citations, to his co-authored scholarly articles. The Petitioner offers evidence to 
show that the number of citations that his work has received is much higher than the average number 
of citations that an article in the field of physics commonly receives. While the Petitioner's field of I I physics is in the larger field of physics, he has not demonstrated that information extrapolated 
from the larger field applies equally to each subfield within physics, including! I physics. Thus, 
the Petitioner's comparison of his citation number in his narrow field with information regarding 
citation in the larger field of physics does not sufficiently establish the level of his acclaim and 
recognition in his field ofL__Jphysics. 
Other evidence in the record similarly fails to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that 
the Petitioner has attained the required level of acclaim and recognition for the classification. 
According to a January 2022 google scholar printout, he had co-authored 34 articles, 4 and his co­
authored work had garnered over 2,000 citations since 201 7. The printout indicates that his most cited 
articles were a 2021 article that had been cited 481 times; his 2015 article that had been cited 223 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) officers should then evaluate the evidencetogetherwhen considering 
the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required 
high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 On his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner lists 5 6 items under "Publications." 
3 
times; his 2020 article that had been cited 148 times; and his 2018 article that had been cited 131 times. 
His two most cited articles, published in 2021 and 2015, respectively, each had over 200 authors who 
were affiliated with a multitude oflaboratories and universities, and credited the Petitioner as an author 
affiliated with the University of I The evidence shows that the articles were associated 
with large-scale collaborative research projects that the Petitioner was involved in when he was a 
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) student at the University of I His third and fourth most cited 
work, published in 2020 and 2018, respectively, was also associated with large-scale collaborative 
research projects that involved hundreds ofresearch scientists. The Petitioner offers reference letters attesting to the  to the importance of these projects, indicating that the had si ificant impact in the field of 
physics. For example, l a physicist at states in his letter that the 
Petitioner "is [a] talented researcher whose research at has helped expand the limits of I !physics. l an associate professor in the Department of Physics, University of I I indicates in her letter that the Petitioner "is at the cutting edge of I physics, particulady 
in the area of ______ 
While the record confirms the importance of these research projects in the field, the evidence, 
including the reference letters, does not reveal the significance of the Petitioner's contributions in these 
projects among hundreds of other research scientists. For example, according to the materials in the 
record concerning the 2015 article, certain authors held the position of research project manager or 
deputy project manager, signifying their leadership role in the project. According to I I 
curriculum vitae, he has served as "one of two co-spokespeople," "interim overall analysis 
coordinator," "co-convener," and "project manager" for these projects. The Petitioner indicates in his 
curriculum vitae that he "Led thd !working group as [a] co-convener'' 
from August 2018 and November 2019. Neither his curriculum vitae nor other evidence in the record 
indicates that he has held any other leadership roles for these projects. The Petitioner has not 
sufficiently explained or established the level of his involvement or the significance of his work in 
these large-scale collaborative research projects. The Petitioner has also not demonstrated that a large 
number of scientists in the field recognize him as one of the lead investigators or as an individual who 
had made major contributions in these projects. 
The evidence reveals that articles that the Petitioner had co-authored with fewer scientists have not 
received the same level of attention in the field as articles that had over 200 co-authors and that were 
associated with large-scale collaborative research projects. For example, the google scholar printout 
notes that the Petitioner co-authored with two other scientists an article published in 2015 in the 
publication Physical Review D; that article received 69 citations. The printout also indicates that the 
Petitioner co-authored with seven other scientists a 2015 article -I I 
published in the journal arXiv; that article received 7 citations. He co-
authored with nine other scientists a 20 18 paper . I I I-published during the International Particle Accelerator Conference; that paper 
received 3 citations. 
The Petitioner has been credited as the first author on a few a ers that were published in conferences, 
such as the 2017 a er and the 2018 a er 
4 
According to the January 2022 go ogle scholar printout, the 201 7 paper received 4 
citations and the 2018 paper received no citation. 
A number of the Petitioner's references- including I the Petitioner's supervisor at the I I and indicate that the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts for one publication and 
one conference. As relating to his service as a manuscript reviewer, we must evaluate the significance 
of his experience to determine if such evidence indicates the required level of acclaim and recognition 
for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The record confirms 
the Petitioner's participation as a reviewer for a paper associated with the 2019 International 
Conference on Physics, Mathematics and Statistics (ICPMS2019), and two articles published in the 
Journal of Instrumentation (JINST). The Petitioner has not claimed, and the evidence does not 
demonstrate, that he has reviewed more than 3 papers. The record is insufficient to confirm that his 
limited experience as a judge of others' work is indictive of his status as one of the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In short, the evidence confirms that the Petitioner was involved in multiple large-scale collaborative 
research projects, while he was a student at the University of and as a research associate 
at thel I that led to his co-authorship of articles that received notable attention in the field. The 
Petitioner, however, has not specified his work, his duties, or demonstrated that his level of 
contributions to these projects that involved hundreds ofresearch scientists supports a finding that he 
is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field. The research 
and associated articles in which he was a primary contributor have received far lower level of attention 
and fewer citations. In addition, he has had limited judging experience, reviewing one paper for a 
conference and two papers for a journal. 
Based on the above discussed reasons, we conclude that the record in the aggregate does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1119-20. Based on this finding, 
we need not consider the separate question of whether his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is an accomplished! I physicist who has been involved in multiple large­
scale collaborative research projects that have received notable attention from the field. As his 
supervisor at the indicates in his letter, the Petitioner's "research has helped to revolutionize 
[the] discipline [of physics] to a greater extent than most can claim." However, the record 
5 Sec also 6 USCJSPolicy Manual,supra, atF.2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative ofbeingoneofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthefield of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); sec also MattcrofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
does not sufficiently show that his level of recognition rises to the required level of sustained national 
or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also Section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility to be classified as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field ofl physics. The appeal will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23272889 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 08, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from 
that decision, as well as four subsequent motions to reopen. The matter is now before us on a fifth 
motion to reopen, in which the Petitioner submits evidence intended to meet one of the evidentiary 
criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that 
satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening, a petitioner must not 
only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, 
Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening of our decision to dismiss the Petitioner's fourth motion. We therefore 
incorporate our prior decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary 
to address the Applicant's claims on motion. 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. I NS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCIS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
2 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "if proceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In his fourth motion, the Petitioner did not identify any error in our previous discussion of the 
Sprudge publication. In our decision dismissing that motion, we also determined that the Petitioner 
had not established that he met a fifth, previously unclaimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
relating to membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields. 
With the present motion, the Petitioner reasserts his eligibility under the same criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). He resubmits the same evidence he provided with his previous motion and 
does not explain what, if anything, is new about the evidence. As we already explained, the evidence 
does not establish that either the IBG or its board of directors is an association which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Additionally, as our prior decision noted, the Petitioner must establish eligibility as of the petition's 
filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for 
reopening the proceedings. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion, or established el igibi I ity 
for the classification he seeks. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision. Therefore, the motion to reopen will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 8, 2024 In Re: 34061375 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete and teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, 
and that the Petitioner is coming to the United States to continue working in the area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he is a "two-time I I World Champion, with sixteen (16) pro Mixed 
Martial Arts (MMA) wins." Since 2018, the Petitioner has spent much ofhis time in the United States in 
nonimmigrant status as a P-1 athlete and, later, a B-l /B-2 visitor. Since 2022, he has competed and 
coached for an MMA school and professional team based inl ICalifornia. The matter before 
us involves the second of three immigrant petitions that the Petitioner filed on his own behalf, each time 
seeking the same classification. 1 
The petition must include clear evidence that the individual is coming to the United States to continue 
work in the area of expertise. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). The Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied this requirement. We disagree. 
On Form 1-140, under "Occupation," the Petitioner stated I I Athlete." Although the 
Petitioner submitted a detailed statement about his employment plans, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had not established that he is "coming to the U.S. to continue working as a I I 
Athlete in the field of Ibecause the Petitioner is "a coach and participated in MMA." The 
Director interpreted this distinction as a change in occupation. 
But on the same petition form, under "Nontechnical Job Description," the Petitioner indicated that he 
would be "competing in Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) events" and "[t]raining athletes." The record 
indicates that MMA incorporates techniques from several different martial arts, including! I 
and that the Petitioner uses I I techniques when training MMA athletes. The record shows 
that, in the past, the Petitioner has competed and coached in bothl land MMA. The record's 
various references to MMA do not represent a departure from the Petitioner's previous experience or 
intended future work, and do not warrant denial of the petition. 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have received a major, internationally recognized award, but he 
does not pursue this claim on appeal. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
nine of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
1 The third and most recent petition, with receipt number ___ was approved October 23, 2024. 
2 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to prizes or awards and 
participation as a judge. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets six other criteria, 
pertaining to memberships; published material; leading or critical role; remuneration; and commercial 
success. The Petitioner acknowledges that he has not satisfied the remaining two criteria relating to 
contributions and display. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of at least 
one more criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of4 7 exhibits, mostly web printouts, dating from between 2013 and 2022. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner submitted "altered" images rather than printouts 
directly from the websites. The Director did not fully explain this conclusion. 
The Petitioner submitted printouts from SimilarWeb providing traffic statistics for some, but not all, of 
the websites where the articles appeared. The printouts include not only estimated numbers of visits to 
the websites, but also rankings by category. The highest such ranking is for MMA Fighting, which ranked 
at #2 under "Sports -Martial Arts." The MMA Fighting article described the Petitioner as one of the 
I I 
The above information indicates that MMA Fighting is major media within the Petitioner's field, which 
satisfies the requirements of the criterion. 
The Director objected to this article and others because they concern the Petitioner's work in MMA rather 
than specifically inl I But as we noted further above, the Petitioner has, from the outset, claimed 
that his extraordinary ability encompasses both I land MMA. 
The Director also disputed the reliability of SimilarWeb, stating it "is a tool to broadly determine 
estimations of internet domain traffic or visits and/or rankings, and/or pageviews, not to determine a 
publication's circulation, readership and/or viewership." But for an online publication that is available 
without a paid subscription, the number ofpage visits may, in some instances, be a justifiable measure of 
readership. Here, the category rankings compare a given website with others in the same category and 
the same country. 
3 
The available evidence meets the Petitioner's burden ofproof to satisfy the requirements of the criterion. 
Because the above discussion shows that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which is sufficient for the case to proceed to a final merits determination, we 
need not discuss the other claimed criteria, and therefore reserve discussion on them. 2 
As discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence. The next 
step is to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim; that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor; and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. A final merits determination involves analyzing an individual's accomplishments and 
weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(8)(2). 
We will remand the matter in order for the Director to make a final merits determination. 
In doing so, the Director must bear in mind that the determination involves consideration ofthe totality 
of the record, rather than simply re-evaluating the evidence submitted regarding the individual 
underlying criteria. The Director must determine whether the record as a whole shows that the 
Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We will remand the matter to the Director for a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22646759 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer -solutions architect, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this 
matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation concerning the 
beneficiary that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate 
that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is chief executive officer (CEO) and solutions architect for __ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for four of the regulatory criteria, specifically the criteria found at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (viii), and (ix), which includes membership in an association requiring 
outstanding achievement, published material about him or his work, performing in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and commanding a high salary. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director applied the 
regulations incorrectly and ignored evidence in the record that he claimed demonstrates eligibility. 
After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets at least three 
criteria. We will discuss each of the four criteria that the Petitioner claims in detail. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission 
to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon 
recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded to the 
foreign national must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the foreign national was 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. Id. The Petitioner asserts that his professional membership 
with the Young President's Organization (YPO), a global organization of chief executives with local 
chapters across the world, fulfills this criterion. 
The record contains information from the YPO website listing the membership criteria as follows: 
• Under 45 years old. 
• President, CEO, Chairperson of the Board, Managing Director, Managing Partner, 
or Equivalent title. 
• 50 full-time employees, or at least 15 full-time employees and a minimum of $2 
million in annual employee compensation. 
• Minimum revenue by company type, or enterprise value. 
• $13 million for sales, service, manufacturing corporations. 
• $10 million for an agency-type businesses. 
• $260 million, including assets under management. 
• $20 million enterprise value. 
The record also includes a printout of frequently asked questions from the YPO website that states, 
"Meeting the specific quantitative requirements does not automatically guarantee admittance into 
YPO. There are other important, less easily defined requirements that also need to be met. These are 
qualitative in nature and are at the discretion of the current chapter's executive committee." 
The Petitioner also submitted the bylaws of his local chapter inl !Brazil. The bylaws state 
that, in addition to the above membership criteria, a candidate must be recommended by two members, 
and requests for admission of candidates will be examined and approved by the membership director 
of the chapter. 
In support of his membership in YPO, the Petitioner submitted a letter attesting to his membership 
since 2001 and his board membership in various positions at different times, meeting minutes 
identifying the Petitioner as a membership director, and an email announcing the Petitioner as a new 
member of the YPO Board in August 2021, one month after the petition was filed.1 
The Director acknowledged that YPO requires professional achievements of its members and requires 
nomination by other members. However, he noted that the chapter bylaws do not state that YPO 
requires outstanding achievements or uses recognized national or international experts to determine 
membership qualification. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the minimum 
requirements for membership in YPO meets the plain language requirements of the criterion. He also 
concluded that the Petitioner did not provide documentary evidence demonstrating that his 
representation ofYPO is a level of membership that requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
1 A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
3 
condition for admission as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines 
or fields. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director improperly imposed a requirement not in the 
regulations, that an organization's outstanding membership qualifications be expressed in its bylaws. 
He further asserts that YPO does use recognized or international experts to determine membership and 
requires outstanding achievements for admission. He states that the Director did not consider his level 
of membership in his position as a member of the I I board as one requiring outstanding 
achievements. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that YPO's membership criteria requires outstanding achievements 
of its members. The record reflects that YPO's requirements for membership are based on age, job 
title, level of experience and general professional status based on the size and income of the employer. 
Although the Petitioner asserts that additional qualitative requirements apply, the record does not 
identify these additional requirements or establish that they are based on outstanding achievement. 
While we agree that there is no regulatory requirement that the YPO bylaws identify these qualitative 
requirements, no other evidence was submitted to support this assertion or elaborate on these 
additional criteria to show that selection was based on outstanding achievement. Relevant factors that 
may lead to a conclusion that the foreign national's membership in the association was not based on 
outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where membership was 
based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field. 2 Here, the requirements 
for YPO membership identified in the record are possessing a certain age, title, and level of experience. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not support his assertion that recognized national or international experts 
judge outstanding achievements. On appeal, Counsel for the Petitioner identifies YPO as a "peer to 
peer organization where board members determine another's membership, meaning that only 
professional [sic] who have already demonstrated national/international acclaim in the business area 
will judge other members' eligibility." He further asserts that "[m]embers are evaluated by the board, 
according to formalities including proficiency exam, and other writing samples ... " We acknowledge 
that holding a senior executive position for a qualifying company relatively early in one's career is a 
significant professional achievement. However, the Petitioner's assertions are not supported by the 
record. The bylaws state that candidates for membership require recommendation by two members 
and that admission of candidates is approved by the membership director. However, neither the 
bylaws or other evidence in the record demonstrates that candidates are judged on outstanding 
achievements, nor is their evidence of the requirement of an exam or writing sample. Assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533,534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing 
Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be 
substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. 
The Petitioner points to his position as member of the I I board of YPO as evidence of a level 
of membership for which he was judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
attained outstanding achievements in the field of business. However, the bylaws state that the YPO 
chapter is managed by an executive council elected by the majority of members present at the annual 
meeting. No other criteria for election are set forth or described elsewhere in the record. Receiving 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
4 
the majority vote among other members ofYPO does not demonstrate that the candidate was selected 
based on qualifications alone and is insufficient to establish eligibility for this criterion, as the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that all members are nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on the following 
published material: 
• 
• 
• 
• • 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• I in Est ado de Sao Paulo (2012) . 
e Sao Paulo (2004) . I in Estado d 
in Folha 
I in Gazeta Mer de Sao Paulo (1997) . 
cantile (2004) . 
Lin Gazeta Mercantile (2004) . 
I in Propmar k (2004) . 
in Folh a de Sao Paulo (2004) . 
e Sao Paulo (2003) . in Folha d 
l in ClientSA Magazine (2003) . 
I publication and date not 
provided. 
• I ________________ in Valor Economico (2004). 
The Petitioner also submitted media data for four of the publications, including Estado de Sao Paulo, 
Folha de Sao Paulo, Gazeta Mercantile, and Propmark. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner of several deficiencies, 
including that: 
• The article title oes not indicate the 
name of the publication in the English translation. 
• The Petitioner is not the subject of the article titled 
• The Petitioner is not the subject of the article titled ' and 
the author's name is not provided. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
5 
• The article titled ___________________ does not 
include the author's name and no information about the publication was provided. 
The Director further stated that the record did not include sufficient information about the publications 
to demonstrate that they qualified as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner submitted the same articles and media data. In a brief submitted 
with the RFE response, counsel for the Petitioner also highlighted quotes from three of the articles 
specifically mentioning the Petitioner. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. He noted the following about the published material: 
• The article titled did not include _________________ 
the author's name in the English translation and does not qualify because it is an 
interview with the Petitioner. Petitioner. • The article titled ________________ does not list the 
author's name and the Petitioner is not the subject of the article. 
• The article titled! I does not include the 
author's name. 
• The article titled does not include the _______________ 
author's name. 
• The article titled ___ is not primarily about 
the Petitioner and his work in the field. 
• The article titled does not include the author's name. 
• The article titled does not ___________________ 
include the author's name. 
Additionally, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit independent, objective evidence 
of the circulation statistics of any of the publications to demonstrate that each qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
On appeal the Petitioner does not submit additional evidence regarding this criterion. Counsel for the 
Petitioner states "as a result of the extensive documentation submitted on this topic, it is clear that [the 
Petitioner] has been a major figure in the specialized media as a reference and highly accomplished 
businessman, with published material about [him] in professional or major business publications or 
other major media." 
The Petitioner did not include the authors' names for nine of the eleven total articles in the record. 
The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, we will consider only articles that include the author's 
name, identified as: 
• in Folha de Sao Paulo (2004). • I in Folha de Sao Paulo (2003). 
6 
These articles are not about the Petitioner. Instead, the articles are about the outsourcing industry in 
Brazil and a government employment program. Articles that are not about the foreign national do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix; see also, 
e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Relating to the Race for a Space article, 
the material mentions a single comment from the Petitioner involving language barriers in 
employment; the article does not discuss the Petitioner and is not about him. Likewise, regarding the I I article, the material mentions a single comment from the Petitioner about a 
social project to employ young people in Brazil; the article does not discuss the Petitioner and is not 
about him. We also note that, even if the remaining articles had included the author and publication 
details, only one represents material about the Petitioner. The _______ article includes 
an excerpt from an interview with the Petitioner discussing his views on business success, and also 
includes a summary of his experience as an entrepreneur and executive. However, the remaining 
articles are brief announcements about the Petitioner's career progression or about projects and 
business developments with the Petitioner's employers. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the publications represents a professional or 
major trade publication or other major medium. 4 Although the Petitioner provided media data for 
Estado de Sao Paulo, Folha de Sao Paulo, Gazeta Mercantile, and Propmark, we note that the evidence 
does not demonstrate that any of these publications represents a professional or major trade publication 
or other major medium. The media kits for Estado de Sao Paulo and Folha de Sao Paulo are dated 
2021 and 2017, respectively, nearly 10 years from the dates of the articles provided. Similarly, the 
publication data for Gazeta is from 2018, 14 years from the publication dates of the material provided. 
Further, the Petitioner did not support the record with independent, objective evidence corroborating 
the publications' claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See 
Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
(concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 
2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). Additionally, the data submitted for Propmark is 
undated and no data was provided for ClientSA Magazine or Valor Economico. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his documentation satisfies 
all of the elements of this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (indicating that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) 
is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 5 
The Petitioner asserts that he erformed in critical roles for various or anizations including as a founder 
and partner of in Brazil, and as CEO 
in the United States. The Director concluded that the record demonstrates the Petitioner's leading or 
critical role at ___________ but the evidence is insufficient to establish the 
distinguished reputation of the organization. The Director further concluded that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's leading or critical role in the other claimed organizations, or the distinguished 
reputations of those organizations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide new or additional evidence to demonstrate the distinguished 
reputation of any organization, or his leading or critical role with other organizations. Counsel for the 
Petitioner states in the brief on appeal that the Petitioner "created an impressive portfolio of companies 
through several acquisitions" while with 
The Petitioner has not established that __________ has a distinguished reputation, 
with "distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
While the record includes evidence relating to various acquisitions within the portfolio ofl I I this evidence does not discuss the reputation of The record 
does not include evidence demonstrating that I lhas a distinguished reputation. Nor 
does the record include evidence concerning the reputation of any other organizations with which the 
Petitioner is associated. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The burden is on the petitioner to 
provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different countries should be 
evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply 
converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States. 6 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his salary as CEO and Managing Partner 
for I The Petitioner submitted his 2019 tax return, and data from two 
salary report websites, Payscale and Glassdoor, and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The salary 
reports reflect the average salary data for CEO positions in Brazil and the United States in 2019. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Meniam-Webster's online dictionary 
defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person"). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
8 
The Director concluded that the evidence was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's salary is 
high relative to others working in the field, as the salary reports are representative of base salaries and 
do not provide a review of salary information of members of the field with more experience. The 
Director also noted that the salary reports reflect the average wages of CEOs, rather than CEO­
Solutions Architects, as described on the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide new or additional evidence to establish that he commands 
a high salary relative to the compensation paid to others in his field. In the brief on appeal, counsel 
for the Petitioner asserts that the Petitioner's salary derives from his role as CEO and Managing Partner 
and states that actual salary information of other CEOs is not openly shared and available for 
comp an son. 
We note that the Petitioner asserts that his total remuneration includes salary, bonuses and stock option 
compensation. He compares his total remuneration to the base salary earnings of others, which is not 
an accurate and persuasive comparison. 
Further, the Petitioner compares his salary as the CEO and Managing Partner to that of salaries of 
CEOs, without the duties and responsibilities of Managing Partners. He did not establish that he 
commands a high salary in relation to other CEO and Managing Partners performing both roles. Both 
precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
did not show that the comparison of average and median salaries of single-role positions reflects his 
commandment of a high salary in relation to other multi-role CEOs. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not show either a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or demonstrate that he satisfies three of ten initial criteria. Specifically, he did not demonstrate that 
he met the criteria relating to memberships, published material, leading or critical role, or high salary. 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
9 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has experience in business 
and as an executive, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090720 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as a noncitizen of "extraordinary ability" in the field of speech and 
theatrical coaching. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . The requested, first-preference category makes immigrant visas available to 
noncitizens who demonstrate extraordinary ability based on "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and "extensive documentation" showing recognition of achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the self-petition. The Director concluded that, 
contrary to regulations, the Petitioner did not establish his satisfaction of three of ten preliminary, 
evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of evidence . See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de 
nova review, we find that the Petitioner meets the preliminary requirements but has not demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim as a speech and theatrical coach. We will therefore dismiss 
the appeal. 1 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability, a petitioner must: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• Seek U.S. entry to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability; and 
• Show that their entry would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner submits additional evidence on appeal. But the Director's request for evidence (RFE) sufficiently notified 
the Petitioner of proof required for both the preliminary criteria and a final merits determination and afforded him a 
reasonabl e opportunity to provide it. Thus, we decline to consider his evidence on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 I&N 
Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017)(citing Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988)). 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a degree of expertise identifying a noncitizen as "one of that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of a noncitizen's extraordinary ability must include either receipt of "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten evidentiary requirements. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If a petitioner meets either of these standards, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then determine whether the record demonstrates sustained national or 
international acclaim placing the petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of their field. 
See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of 
extraordinary ability). 
II. THE PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate his receipt of a major, international recognized award. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). But the Director found that he met one of the ten alternate regulatory standards. The 
record demonstrates his participation as a judge of others' work in speech and theatrical coaching or 
an allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Thus, to preliminarily qualify for the requested 
classification, the Petitioner must meet at least two other criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has established himself as the subject 
of published materials in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We also find that, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), he has demonstrated his performance in a critical role for a distinguished 
organization. 
A. Published Material about the Petitioner 
To meet this standard, noncitizens must demonstrate that "professional or major trade publications or 
other major media" published material about them that "relat[ ed] to [their] work in the field for which 
classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Evidence must include "the title, date, and author 
of the material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
The Petitioner is a native of Cuba and a resident of Colombia. He submitted copies of ten print or 
online articles mentionin him includin a 2011 article from a daily newspaper in Colombia's capital 
entitled The article discusses the Petitioner's coaching 
of the ________ explaining that, when thel the Petitioner taught 
him theatrical techniques to improve his public speaking ability. The Petitioner stated the article's 
initial publication in the newspaper's printed version. 2 
The Director found that, contrary to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner did not establish the 
newspaper as a "major med[ium ]" in Colombia. The Director noted that the Petitioner's RFE response 
included proof that, in 2020, the newspaper's website generated more visits than any other "news and 
2 The Petitioner submitted a 2020 online printout of the 2011 article. But he indicated the article's initial publication in 
the newspaper's printed version. When describing articles issued online, the Petitioner stated that they were "published 
on" particular Internet addresses, or Unifonn Resource Locators (URLs) (emphasis added). In contrast, when describing 
articles issued in print, he stated that they were "published in" certain publications. ( emphasis added). He described the 
2011 article as "published in" the newspaper. We therefore find that he indicated the article's publication in print. The 
record does not establish whether the newspaper also issued the article in 2011 on its website. 
2 
media" site in the country. But, because the Petitioner omitted evidence of the newspaper's circulation 
in 2011, the Director found insufficient proof that the paper constituted a major medium at the time of 
the article's publication. 
While the Petitioner argues that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not expressly require evidence of a 
publication's circulation at the time of an article's issuance, we find that the Director reasonably 
requested information about the newspaper's earlier circulation. Evidence about publications "should 
establish that the[ir] circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics." 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. Thus, USCIS considers a medium as "major" based on its 
level of circulation or viewership, with "major" media constituting those with relatively "high" 
numbers of readers or viewers. Id. And, to determine how many readers saw an article, the Agency 
must logically focus on the medium's circulation near the time of the article's issuance. As the initial 
publication of the article about the Petitioner predates the newspaper's online viewership statistics by 
almost 10 years, the Director reasonably requested earlier circulation information. 
The Director, however, overlooked evidence of the newspaper's earlier circulation. The Petitioner's 
RFE response included a printout from an online organization that tracks media in more than 30 
countries worldwide. The printout cites a study that found the newspaper the most widely read print 
medium in Colombia in 2016, not long after the article's publication. Because of this earlier 
circulation information, we find that a preponderance of evidence establishes the newspaper as a major 
Colombian medium at the time of the article's publication. Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, 
the Petitioner has satisfied the standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This criterion requires a noncitizen to demonstrate their performance "in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first considers whether a petitioner's role in an organization, establishment, or its division or 
department was leading or critical. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. Evidence of a "leading" 
role must establish the noncitizen as a leader within an organization, establishment, or its division or 
department. Id. In contrast, evidence of a "critical" role must establish that a petitioner contributed 
in a significantly important way to the outcome of the activities of an organization, establishment, or 
its division or department. Id. 
Next, to determine whether an organization, establishment, or its division or department has a 
"distinguished reputation," USCIS considers a variety of factors, including relative size and longevity. 
Id. The term "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person." Id. 
Although the Petitioner claims to meet this criterion on multiple bases, we find that he has 
demonstrated his critical role for a distinguished Colombian film festival. The record establishes him 
as a founder and academic director of the ________ festival, which has occurred 
annually since 2011. Evidence indicates that the festival generates significant favorable media 
attention in Latin America and presents films from around the world. The record therefore establishes 
the festival as "distinguished." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
3 
The Director found the Petitioner to be "instrumental" in developing the film festival. But the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the festival's status as an "organization" or 
"establishment." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The term "organization" ordinarily means "an 
organized body of people with a particular purpose." Oxford Dictionary, https://www.google.com/ 
search?q=organization. The film festival that the Petitioner founded meets this definition, as evidence 
identifies the festival as a group of people with the shared purpose of producing an annual film festival. 
Also, we previously found an Albanian film festival to constitute an organization. See Krasniqi v. 
Dibbins, 558 F.Supp.3d 168, 188-89 (D.N.J. 2021). Thus, we find that the Colombian film festival 
constitutes an organization under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In Krasniqi, we found that the noncitizen submitted insufficient evidence of her role in the Albanian 
film festival, such as her specific duties. 558 F.Supp.3d at 188-89. The Petitioner, however, provided 
a letter from the Colombian film festival's director, listing the Petitioner's annual festival activities as 
including: coordinating workshops and the attendance of film judges; lecturing; participating as a 
judge; and moderating forums. The duties indicate that the Petitioner has made significant 
contributions to the festival. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. A preponderance of evidence 
therefore demonstrates his performance in a critical role for a distinguished organization. 
III. THE FINAL MERITS DETERMINATION 
As required, the Petitioner has met at least three of ten preliminary evidentiary criteria for a noncitizen 
of extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will therefore evaluate the evidence in its 
entirety to determine whether it demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements in the field of speech and theatrical coaching, marking the Petitioner as "one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Most of the published articles about the Petitioner in his designated field of speech and theatrical 
coaching date back to 2011, when he coached Colombia's I Ion public speaking. Those 
materials, however, are now more than 10 years old. The Petitioner must demonstrate that he has 
"sustained" acclaim in the field since then. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner is a university professor of arts and communications sciences in Colombia. But he has 
demonstrated his concurrent work as a speech and theatrical coach of I I since 2011. The record also includes evidence of more recent acclaim for his coaching 
work. For example, a senior partner for a communications consulting company where the Petitioner 
works stated the firm's incorporation of his method of speech coaching into the company's training 
programs. The partner also described the Petitioner as "a consultant of critical importance to the 
Company" whose public speaking evaluations are "highly valuable" to the firm and its clients. A 
business executive, who said she has worked with the Petitioner several times, recognized him "as one 
of the most relevant experts in oral communication, non-verbal language, and spokesperson training 
in Colombia and Latin America." And a former Colombian minister of education whom the Petitioner 
coached stated: "I have not found a consultant in oral communication and media training, more 
capable and effective than [the Petitioner]." 
4 
This recent praise for the Petitioner's coaching, however, does not sufficiently establish his 
sustentation of acclaim on a national or international basis. The letters also do not demonstrate how 
his expertise corresponds to a person that has risen to the very top of the field. The letter from the 
communications consulting company does not indicate whether the firm's training programs also 
incorporate methods from consultants other than the Petitioner, or that his methods have sustained 
nationwide or international acclaim. The business executive's description of the Petitioner as "as one 
of the most relevant experts in oral communication, non-verbal language, and spokesperson training 
in Colombia and Latin America" does not demonstrate that he has risen to the top of his field or has 
sustained national or international acclaim. And the former Colombian minister's description of the 
Petitioner as the most capable and effective communications consultant he has found means little 
without evidence of how many other consultants the former minister has found. Further, the letters 
are from people within the Petitioner's circle of professional acquaintances and do not reference 
evidence of "extensive documentation" of his accomplishments in the field. See Mishra v. Richardson, 
No. l:20-cv-991, (LMB/TCB), 2021 WL 1566071, *3 (E.D. Va. Apr. 20, 2021) (finding letters from 
colleagues at a petitioner's employer insufficient to demonstrate national or international acclaim); 
see also Bodhankar v. USCIS, No. 119-cv-706-MAD/CFH, 2020 WL 777211, *1 (N.D. N.Y. Feb. 18, 
2020) (finding evidence of a petitioner's development of his employer insufficient to establish national 
or international acclaim). In short, these letters do not establish the Petitioner as "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We acknowled e the Petitioner's authorshi of a 2019 book on s eech and theatrical coachin entitled 
But the 
record lacks sufficient evidence of acclaim for the work or its author. The Petitioner asserted that a 
2020 online article entitled "offers a critical review of his book, giving 
it high praise." But we do not find the article to be sufficiently laudatory. In total, the portion of the 
article about the Petitioner's work states: 
This book shows how to develop a speech that is shocking and seductive for the viewer, 
through effective communication theories focused on the construction of a public 
personality (figure). It contains multiple exercises with which to put this knowledge 
into practice in any circumstance and before any type of public. 
The article is insufficiently praiseworthy to constitute sustained national or international acclaim. 
Letters from officials at communications consulting companies where the Petitioner has worked also 
reference his 2019 book. They describe the book as "very practical," "well-supported," and "novel." 
One of the officials also stated that his company urges its clients to read the book. But the letters lack 
praise of the book sufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's place among those in the small percentage 
at the very top of the speech and theatrical coaching field. 
The record contains other published materials and testimonials about the Petitioner. But these 
materials largely praise his work in areas such as film, drama, and artistic research, which appear to 
be outside his designated field of expertise. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his chosen field 
of speech and theatrical coaching encompasses these other areas of expertise. See, e.g., Integrity 
Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 131 F.Supp.3d 721, 731 (S.D. Ohio 2015) 
5 
(upholding our finding that competitive gymnastics and gymnastics coaching are not the same area of 
expertise). 
The record reflects the Petitioner's talents in many areas. But he designated speech and theatrical 
coaching as his field of endeavor and seeks classification in a highly restrictive immigrant visa 
category, intended for those at the very top of their fields. The Petitioner need not establish himself 
as the most qualified speech and theatrical coach. But, even considering the evidence in the aggregate, 
he has not demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim in the field or his ranking among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The record establishes the Petitioner's satisfaction of the preliminary, regulatory requirements for a 
noncitizen of extraordinary ability. But he has not demonstrated sustained national or international 
acclaim in the designated field of speech and theatrical coaching. We will therefore affirm the 
Director's denial of the petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18488051 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an author, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a writer and author currently working and residing in Guatemala. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria pertaining to the judging the work of others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that the Director's decision "discounts the 
significance of the evidence through merely skepticism ." He further asserts that he meets at least three 
additional evidentiary criteria; specifically, the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, 
memberships, and original contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not 
pursued his initial claim that he meets the criterion related to commercial success in the performing 
arts under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address 
this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion related to judging. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has 
served as a juror for an international literature contest and a poetry contest. By having some influence 
over the selection of award winners, the Petitioner participated as a judge as described in the 
regulation . However, the record does not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence. While the Director 
acknowledged his submission of documentation establishing his receipt of numerous awards, he 
2 
determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the referenced awards were nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determination was erroneous, noting that the letters 
and documentation submitted in support of the petition establish the national and international 
recognition of the awards beyond the awarrng rtities. For example, the Petitioner asserts that his 
selection as the Guatemalan Delegate to the International PEN Congress required him to meet a 
rigorous selection criteria, as explained in a letter from .__ _________ ___. of the PEN 
Guatemala Center. He further asserts that his receipt of two awards from the National Association of 
Guatemalan Writers (the.__ _____ ____, in 1993 and the National Award for.__ ______ ~ 
in 1996) constitute nationally recognized awards as both recognition for his literary achievements and 
his career as a university professor. He also provides evidence of his receipt of thel I Medal in 
2006 and thel IA ward in 2011, along with numerous other certificates recognizing his excellence 
in the field of academics. 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provided copies of certificates, pho~~gr•pr ~f medals, two article excerpts 
from what appear to be Guatemalan publications discussing th International PEN Congress, and 
an expert opinion letter froml l a professor at University! I In 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted letters from individuals 
associated with the awarding organizations discussing the Petitioner's career achievements and 
attesting to the prestigious reputations of their respective organizations. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. As noted by the Director, while the letters from 
various awarding organizations speak highly of the Petitioner and his accomplishments, they do not 
demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field. While several of the letter writers recount the various certificates or awards the Petitioner 
has received from their respective organizations, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that his 
receipt of these awards and accolades are nationally or internationally recognized in the literary field. 
For example, a sworn declaration byl I who served as thel lof the National 
Association of Writers and Friends of the National Bank of Guatemala, attests to the fact that the 
Petitioner was the recipient of the I t award and the National Award forl I I 11 lstates that the association's pubhc acknowledgement of the Petitioner as a national 
writer is an honor bestowed upon individuals who contribute to national culture through their literary 
work, and that the I ]is awarded only to a small group of Guatemalan writers who stand out 
for their contributions in literary works. A letter froml L a writer, poeJ radir host and 
cultural promoter based inl I comments on the Petitioner's receipt of th award in 
2011 "as a worth= Guatemalan artist," noting that he was ersonally present at the event. A letter 
fro ml • J professor and member of the~-~--- of the National School of Agriculture 
of Guatemala, states that the Petitioner was granted the Medal by the organization in 2005 in 
recognition of his illustrious career as a writer. notes that the Petitioner also served as a 
professor for and.__ ___________ ____,of the National School of Agriculture until his 
retirement in 2007. The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml 11 I 
.__ _______ ..,.he College of Agricultural Engineers of Guatemala and member of the General 
Assembly of Presidents of the Professional Associations of Guatemala, confirming that the Petitioner 
3 
was named .__ ________ __. in 2016 for his "important contributions to the general culture 
of our country and the world." 
While each of these letters confirms that the Petitioner received an award or a form of recognition for 
his various literary ( and academic) contributions from their respective organizations, they do not 
establish that his receipt of such honors constitutes awards that are nationally or internationally 
recognized. A prize or an award does not garner national or international recognition from the 
competition in which it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued the award. 
Rather, national and international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes 
of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; 
for example but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Additionally, 
unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a 
particular prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence of various events and engagement in the literary field, 
and their perception within the field, the limited evidence of media coverage garnered by the 
Petitioner's awards in such activities is insufficient to establish the level of national or international 
recognition associated with the awards and recognition he received from the various organizations 
discussed herein. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of excerpts from Guatemalan 
newspapers discussing the I I PEN International Congress, there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's invitation to participate in the congress was nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The letter from I I a professor atl I University, comments on the Petitioner's 
literary and academic achievements. ~------~ states that the Petitioner "has received 
international recognitions for excellence in the field of Latin American literature" by virtue of his 
selection to attend thel PEN International Congress, and in a second letter submitted on appeal, 
she farther comments on the Petitioner's two awards from the National Association of Guatemalan 
Writers, noting that "this only farther illustrates the prestige enjoyed by [the petitioner] on a national 
level." While these letters praise the Petitioner's literary accomplishments,! ts 
conclusory assertions regarding the level of national and international recognition bestowed by such 
honors are not supported by independent, objective evidence. 
While the above materials, and the others in the record, 1 confirm the Petitioner's receipt of various 
awards and honors, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards 
won. 2 The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the literary field, as required. Moreover, it appears that some of the 
certificates referenced, such as the "Certificate of Distinguished University Professor" and "Plaque of 
Emeritus Professor o~._ __ _.t do not pertain to his proposed field of endeavor, as they recognize his 
academic achievements as a university professor and not his literary accomplishments. 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in dete1mining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed his membership in the following associations: 
• PEN International; 
• Editorial Council, Universidadl Ide Guatemala; 
• Guatemala National Association of Writers and Friends of National Books; 
• Editorial Council, PEN Guatemala; 
• ~-------~and 
• Asociacion de Esritores Lationamericanos (ADELA) 
After reviewing the Petitioner's material, the Director determined that he did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion because he did not establish that the associations required outstanding 
achievements as a condition of membership or that admittance was determined by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the field. Specifically, the Director determined that while the record 
contained letters from individuals discussing the membership requirements for the respective 
associations, they were not supported by corroborating evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that 
the support letters previously submitted by various association members demonstrate that he meets 
this criterion, and argues that the Director's request to view bylaws or constitutions of the associations 
was erroneous. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that any 
of the claimed organizations require outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. For 
example, the Petitioner presented evidence that he was a member of the editorial councils of PEN 
International and PEN Guatemala, and relied on a letter from I I, I I PEN 
Guatemala, who outlined the membership requirements for these organizations. Whilel I 
states that membership in both PEN International and PEN Guatemala "is granted to writers 
recognized nationally and internationally, who have at least two outstanding works published and 
submitted to the General Assembly of the PEN Guatemala Center by at least two distinguished 
members of said assembly," no independent documentation to support these assertions was submitted. 
Similarly, a letter from I ,I I I PEN Guatemala Center, 
summarized the requirements for membership and election to the editorial council, but did not 
supplement his assertions with documentation from the organization confirming these requirements. 
And a letter froml 11 I ADELA, states the criteria for admission "are the 
following: 1) Literary genre of your work, 2) awards or recognitions, 3) participation in events, 
4)associations to which you belong or have belonged and 5) the titles of your literary work for which 
you must send a photograph of the covers of your books." This letter is also not supported by 
independent, objective evidence of ADELA's membership requirements. Additionally, we note that 
the statements byl I and the other letter writers do not demonstrate that membership in their 
respective organizations constitutes a membership contemplated by the regulation, as these vague 
5 
requirements do not indicate that they require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
While the referenced letters confirm the Petitioner's claimed memberships in the above-referenced 
associations, along with their missions, he failed to submit evidence of the membership requirements 
for these associations. 3 We will not presume exclusive membership requirements from the general 
reputation of a given association, as the association's reputation may derive from its size, the number 
of symposiums it hosts or other factors independent of the exclusive nature of its membership. The 
record lacks documentation, such as bylaws, membership requirements, or other appropriate evidence, 
establishing that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields.4 
On appeal, the Petitioner additionally refers to his participation as a judge/member of the Fulbright 
Commission at the US Embassy in Guatemala, his jury service for an international literature contest 
and national poetry contest, and his selection to serve as a commentator on several books. He asserts 
that the Director erred by not considering these memberships, and notes that his selection "to serve in 
these capacities is evidence of his recognition as an extraordinary writer." The regulation at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is a separate criterion pertaining to judging. While some of these activities might 
also be relevant to whether the Petitioner has satisfied the membership criterion, he must demonstrate 
the relevance of his judging activities to this criterion. The record does not contain evidence to 
establish this relevance. 
For example, the Petitioner failed to submit evidence to establish that any of the named entities above 
constitute "associations" which have members admitted as anticipated by the regulation. In the 
alternative, if we were to accept the named entities as qualifying associations under the regulation, the 
Petitioner provides no evidence of the membership requirements for these associations. Further, the plain 
language of the regulation requires evidence that membership in the association, and not a subsequent 
selection to a committee or jury panel, requires outstanding achievement. 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies the 
regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that his authorship of 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the letters here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 Although the Director specifically requested documentation such as the relevant sections of the bylaws and constitutions 
to demonstrate the membership requirements of the respective organizations and associations, the Petitioner declined to 
submit such evidence. As the record does not contain official documentation of the associations' membership criteria, we 
cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's memberships are qualifying. Failure to submit requested evidence which 
precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
5 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
6 
various literary works, and several reference letters commenting on such works, demonstrate his 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of his literary works through recommendation letters praising him for his contributions , the 
authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's literary and academic achievements but do not demonstrate 
that his contributions in the literary field have made the required impact in thf field On anne::il, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director discounted the expert opinion letter from ] as it 
pertains to this criteria, and asserts that the Director's conclusion regarding whether his work was of 
major significance was erroneous . 
The first letter froml I describes the Petitioner's success as an author of poetry and 
novels addressing the "complex ethnic and cultural make-up" of Guatemala and statr that all of the 
Petitioner's work is "original, compelling, and significant." While [ _ asserts that the 
Petitioner's work has impacted the field of Latin American literature, she does not explain how the 
Petitioner's work constitutes a contribution of major significance in the literary field. 
In her second letter submitted on appealJ lstates that "there is no doubt in my mind 
that [the Petitioner] is one of the most significant members of his generation of writers from 
Guatemala. I base this judgment on having read several of his works, which I found to be rich and of 
the highest quality." Whilel !recognizes the Petitioner's talents within her letters, she 
does not provide the nexus between his talents and the manner in which he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements, 
including his career as both a university professor and an author, and focus on his accomplishments 
and talents. However , the authors do not provide a description of how the Petitioner 's authored works, 
individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance with the regulation. The 
letters, solicited from the Petitioner 's colleagues, primarily contain broad attestations of the 
significance of the Petitioner's work without providing specific examples of original contributions that 
rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner 's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value .. 6 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion .. 7 USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements . 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner 's novels and 
poems have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply stating that the 
work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has majorly impacted 
the field of Latin American literature is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his 
6 See id. 
7 See id.; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
accomplishments, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's literary works have had a 
demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not provide analysis of how any of his work as 
an author have significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner references documents, such as flyers 
and brochures for presentations and festivals, indicating that excerpts from his books and poems were 
recited. While this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's work has been presented in various 
venues, the record does not contain evidence to establish this relevance, such as evidence that these 
venues and festivals recognize literary works that have influenced the field as opposed to recognizing 
quality books and poems. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner has supplemented the appeal with evidence demonstrating that he 
published a new novel,I l inc=J 2021. While we acknowledge his 
claim that three recipients of the Guatemala National Literature Award wrote the forward to the book, 
and that there is a huge demand for the book and potential interest in adapting the story into a movie, 
the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). In 
this matter, the petition was filed in November 2019. We will therefore not consider this evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings , it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2024 In Re: 34776158 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner , a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we dismissed because it 
was filed untimely. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
As to the present motion, the Petitioner is requesting that her previous motion to reopen and reconsider, 
which was received in April 2024 and dismissed as untimely by one day, be reopened due to travel 
circumstances related to medical care. The Petitioner's combined motion was based on the dismissal 
of an appeal that included a request for additional time to submit a brief due to the same medical and 
travel circumstances . To support that request, the Petitioner submitted with her appeal a hospital 
certificate dated September 18, 2023, describing recommended treatment for a deviated septum. We 
note that the Petitioner did not submit a request concerning timeliness with her subsequent motion, 
which would have been the appropriate point at which to request that the late filing of her motion be 
considered timely. 
The Petitioner now submits the previously submitted hospital certificate, as well as a medical scan and 
other documentation concerning two medical appointments in April and June of 2023. In addition, 
the Petitioner submits a travel record showing that she departed the United States on September 12, 
2023, and returned on June 14, 2024. While the Petitioner asserts that the "extraordinary 
circumstances" ofher absence from the United States rendered her "unable to effectively communicate 
with [her attorney's] office and provide the necessary evidence to support the previously dismissed I-
290B Motion in a timely manner," she has not specified how her absence delayed the filing of her 
motion or provided evidence to support her assertions. The Petitioner must support assertions with 
relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. The 
Petitioner has not submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening her 
previous motion. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Therefore, we will only consider new evidence to the extent that it 
pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen and reconsider. Here, the Petitioner has 
not provided new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the prior motion. Because the Petitioner 
has not established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to 
reopen our prior decision. We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew based on the present motion to 
reopen and, therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
Although not the basis for dismissal of the current motion, we note that even if the previously 
dismissed combined motion to reopen and reconsider had been timely filed, it would have been 
dismissed on the merits. On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted a brief that largely reiterated 
arguments presented in her appeal brief, with the exception of reference to a newly submitted article 
written about her in a magazine. The magazine's date of"March-April 2024" post-dates the petition's 
filing date ofAugust 31, 2020, by approximately four years, and therefore could not serve as evidence 
to demonstrate her eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § I03.2(b )(I); see also Matter ofIzummi, 
22 I&N Dec. at 175 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998) (stating that a petition cannot be approved at a future date 
after the self-petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts). Because the motion to reopen did 
not include new facts or new evidence, the motion would not have met the requirements of a motion 
to reopen and would have been dismissed. We also note that the Petitioner's brief did not address any 
conclusions reached in our decision to dismiss the appeal, but repeated arguments against 
determinations made by the Director in denying her petition and subsequent motions filed with the 
Texas Service Center. The Petitioner only generally referenced her disagreement with the appeal 
decision without addressing the content of that decision. A motion to reconsider1 is not a process by 
which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief previously presented and seek reconsideration 
by generally alleging error in the prior decision. Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). 
The Petitioner did not identify a law or policy that we incorrectly applied to the evidence of record in 
dismissing her appeal. Therefore, the motion would not have met the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider and would have been dismissed. 
1 A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and 
that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
2 
In sum, we will dismiss the motion to reopen because the Petitioner has not established new facts that 
would warrant reopening of the proceeding. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2024 In Re: 33945460 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biochemist, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
10 initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further determined that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, the Director concluded that the record satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), but that it does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director indicated that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to address the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), (vii)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), (vii)-(x), thereby waiving these criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 
24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the 
party presentation rnle)). The Petitioner does not overcome the Director's denial for the reasons 
discussed below. 
Evidence of the [individual's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major sign[ficance to the field. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains letters from professors of fields related to 
biochemistry. However, the Director observed that the record "lacks specifics regarding how the 
[Petitioner's] achievements as a researcher have affected significantly the field of biochemistry." For 
example, the Director noted that "the [P]etitioner has not submitted sufficient objective, documentary 
evidence demonstrating that [his] research has provoked widespread commentary or that it has 
received notice from others at a level indicative of its 'major significance' in the field." The Director 
also acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted information from Clarivate Analytics regarding the 
citation rate of the Petitioner's scholarly publications. However, the Director also noted that the 
Clarivate Analytics information: 
include a disclaimer stating "Citation frequency is highly skewed, with many 
infrequently cited papers and relatively few highly cited papers. Consequently, citation 
2 
rates should not be interpreted as representing the central tendency of the distribution. 
Keep in mind that citation rates are calculated from citation counts of papers that meet 
the criteria for inclusion in [ the Essential Science Indicators (ESI) database]. It is 
reasonable to expect that these rates are higher than those for all papers in the field, but 
a margin of difference is impossible to determine." 
Based on that disclaimer, the Director concluded that the Clarivate Analytics information "is not a 
reliable source; and therefore, cannot prove that the [P]etitioner's citations have been of major 
significance to the field." Relatedly, the Director noted that the copies of the Petitioner's Google 
Scholar citation record information the Petitioner submitted in response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) cannot establish eligibility because it is dated after the date on which the Petitioner 
submitted the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, citing Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45,49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971). The Director further noted that, even if the record established the 
Petitioner's scholarly publications' citation rates, he "did not demonstrate that papers with such 
citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field." The Director 
also noted that the record establishes the Petitioner's research has received some media coverage and 
that he has received some research fonding; however, the Director concluded that the record does not 
establish how this media coverage and fonding indicates the Petitioner's research has made 
contributions of major significance to the field, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects that the Director "failed to issue a clear finding regarding originality." 
The Petitioner also states that he has made original contributions of major significance to the field of 
biochemistry research because "three of his published papers have received enough citations to rank 
among the top 10% of the most-cited articles in Biology & Biochemistry in their respective years of 
publication, including one paper in the top 1 % of this category." The Petitioner asserts that opinion 
letters written by __________________ "media outlets discussing [the 
Petitioner's] research," and "details regarding funding received for [the Petitioner's] research" 
establish he has made original contributions ofmajor significance to the field ofbiochemistry research. 
We first note that the Director did not err by failing "to issue a clear finding regarding originality" 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The regulation requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made 
original contributions in the field, and that the original contributions are of major significance to the 
field. Here, the issue of whether the Petitioner's contributions were of major significance to the field 
of biochemistry research is dispositive for determining whether the record satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Thus, "a clear finding regarding originality" would not affect the outcome 
of the ultimate decision. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are 
not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate 
decision). We acknowledge that the record establishes the Petitioner authored or coauthored at least 
one published scholarly paper that constitutes an original scholarly contribution, as contemplated by 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Turning to the Petitioner's citation record, at the time offiling the Petitioner submitted Google Scholar 
information regarding his scholarly articles' citation records, with information from Clarivate 
regarding citation trends among papers included in the ESI database. In response to the Director's 
RFE, the Petitioner submitted documents he described as "updated" citation information. However, 
3 
as the Director noted, information about citations dated after the petition filing date cannot establish 
eligibility because it presents a new set of material facts that did not exist at the time of filing, and we 
need not address this evidence further. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. at 
49; Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). Together, the Google Scholar 
and Clarivate information submitted at the time of filing indicate that the Petitioner authored scholarly 
articles in the field of "Biology and Biochemistry" whose citations ranked in the top 1 % in 2016, and 
in the top l 0% in 2018 and 2021, among qualifying articles in the ESI database. 
As the Director noted, the Clarivate information disclaimer discredits its own reliability. More 
specifically, the citation percentiles to which the Petitioner compares his articles' citations is an overly 
broad category of all "Biology and Biochemistry" articles, including disparate specializations for 
which there may be routinely few or no citations, which the disclaimer describes as being unreflective 
of "the central tendency ofthe distribution." 1 Therefore, without more accurate information about the 
citation rates of scholarly articles among biochemistry researchers sufficiently similar to the 
Petitioner's research specialization during the relevant periods, the record does not establish how 
information in the record regarding his scholarly articles' citation rates may be representative of their 
significance to the field in which the Petitioner specializes. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the number of citations three of his papers have received "are 
nowhere near the central tendency of the distribution. As such, the observation that ESI statistics do 
not represent the central tendency of the distribution is irrelevant." On the contrary, the Clarivate 
disclaimer concession that its data "should not be interpreted as representing the central tendency of 
the distribution" informs that the data also should not be interpreted as representing the actual 
percentiles of citations. As we noted, grouping the Petitioner's research in an overly broad category 
of all "Biology and Biochemistry" articles contributes to the Clarivate disclaimer's concession that 
"[c]itation frequency is highly skewed." The category of all "Biology and Biochemistry" articles 
includes those from disparate specializations for which there may be routinely few or no citations. By 
including disparate specializations for which there may be routinely few or no citations, the data 
creates the illusion that an article within a particular specialization that receives 20 citations is in the 
90th percentile of all "Biology and Biochemistry" articles, whereas it may be in, for example, the 50th 
percentile of articles in similar specializations, excluding the disparate specializations for which there 
may be routinely few or no citations. 
Next, although the opinion letters written by ___________________ 
address the "quality of [the Petitioner's] work and its benefits to the country," they do not establish 
how the Petitioner's original scholarly contributions have been of major significance to the field of 
biochemistry research. For example, Dr. notes that a research group in 2018 "turned to [the 
Petitioner's] novel techniques to identify the bottleneck in the cyanobacterial conversion of CO2 to 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate," and that another research group in 2020 "discussed the efficacy of [the 
Petitioner's] kinetic profiling method." However, Dr. I lletter does not explain how the two 
research groups' activities indicate that the Petitioner's original scholarly contributions have been of 
major significance to the field of biochemistry research, as Iopposed to some degree of significance to 
those two research groups. As another example, Dr. opinion letter asserts that he has "utilized 
1 We take administrative notice that a statistical central tendency expresses the midpoint of a group of numerical values, 
around which the statistical data can be grouped and contextualized, such as percentiles. 
4 
[the Petitioner's] findings in my own work." Dr.Oappears to have participated in the 2018 research 
group referenced in Dr. I opinion letter, and he generally informs that "other researchers have 
also benefitted from [the Petitioner's] techniques and the discoveries he has made." However, Dr. 
letter does not provide information regarding how the Petitioner's original scholarly 
contributions have been of major significance to the field of biochemistry research, beyond some 
unspecified number of research groups, including his own. Similarly, the opinion letters written by 
Dr. and Dr.I !discuss how they have used the Petitioner's research findings in their own 
research. 
Dr. I I half-page opinion letter references media coverage by "the International ChannelI I China Science Daily, and I I Observer from Daily," of a 2018 research 
project, noting that the Petitioner "is the first author of this work and performed most experiments and 
wrote the manuscript." However, Dr. does not elaborate on how the various media coverage 
informs how the Petitioner's original scholarly contributions may have been of major significance to 
the field of biochemistry research. Instead, Dr. asserts that a "core technology in this study is 
metabolic flux analysis" and that the Petitioner developed "a series of steady-state and dynamic 
metabolic flux analysis technologies for various biological systems," which "provide[ s] essential 
technical support for research in synthetic biology, microbiology, and biomedical fields." The letter 
closes by opining that the Petitioner "should be credited as having received media recognition for the 
research." 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted copies of information he described as his 
"recognition by media outlets," including International Channell IChina Science Daily, and I IDaily, both written in a language other than English and containing certified English 
translations. The English translations of the media publications-including a series of still images 
from an apparent video with English subtitles from International Channell -address research 
conducted by Dr. I I also identified as Dr. I I apparently the same individual who 
wrote the half-page opinion letter addressed above. However, the English translations of the media 
publications neither reference the Petitioner nor inform how his original scholarly contributions may 
have been of major significance to the field of biochemistry research. Instead, they generally assert 
that the research may "help synthetic biologists design and engineer cyanobacteria to directly convert 
carbon dioxide into biofuels and chemicals" and that it may provide "new ideas for understanding and 
improving the nitrogen use efficiency of crops." Thus, even if the media coverage recognized the 
Petitioner-which it does not-the coverage does not establish how his original scholarly 
contributions may have been of major significance to the field of biochemistry research, beyond some 
indeterminate level of usefulness. 
Turning to the funding the Petitioner addresses on appeal, the record contains minimal information 
regarding the funding his various research projects have received. The "[e]vidence of [his] major 
funding sources" are brief, vague acknowledgments attached to his research publications. For 
example, one publication acknowledges that the research "was supported in part by the Ministry of 
Science and Technology of China ... and the National Natural Science Foundation of China." 
Another publication acknowledges that the research "was funded ... by the National Natural Science 
Foundation of China ..., the National Key R&D Program of China ..., and the Chinese Academy of 
Sciences." Another publication acknowledges that the research "was supported by the Strategic 
Priority Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences ... and Natural Science Foundation 
5 
of China." The Petitioner also submitted generalized information regarding the funding sources, 
which he describes on appeal as "major Chinese agencies." However, the record does not explain how 
receiving research funding in general may indicate that the research produced with that funding has 
major significance to any particular field. For example, the record does not establish that any of the 
funding sources only provide funding to research projects that will have major significance to any 
particular field, or to researchers whose prior research has had major significance to any particular 
field, which could establish that funding from such a source would categorically indicate the major 
significance of the project. Although the funding sources may be "major Chinese agencies," as the 
Petitioner asserts, without more, the significance of funding sources does not establish how the 
research those sources funded-in advance-subsequently resulted in contributions of major 
significance. The record does not otherwise establish how receipt of some unspecified level of 
funding-from any source-may indicate how any of the Petitioner's original scholarly contributions 
have been of major significance to the field of biochemistry research. 
For the reasons discussed above, and considered as a whole, the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner's original scholarly contributions have been of major significance to the field of 
biochemistry research, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Therefore, the 
record does not satisfy at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established he received a one-time achievement or, in the alternative, evidence 
that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2024 In Re: 34750890 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orthopedic surgeon specializing in spinal surgery, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that he will continue working in 
his area of expertise in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The record indicates the Petitioner received a Ph.D. in China in 2007, after previously completing 
medical school. The Petitioner worked as a surgeon at while also 
publishing several scholarly articles and inventing patented technology. He then became associate 
chief physician in the Orthopedics Department at China. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging and scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria. 
We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted evidence ofhis membership, service on committees, or recommendation 
for membership in nine associations. The Petitioner submitted excerpts from the constitutions ofthree of 
the associations: the Shanghai Association of Chinese Integrative Medicine (SACIM); the China 
Association for Disaster & Emergency Rescue Medicine (CAD ERM); and the China Medicine Education 
2 
Association (CMEA). The Petitioner did not submit information about the membership requirements of 
the other six named associations. 
The SACIM's constitution indicates that prospective members must "[a]chieve certain achievements in 
the fields of medical treatment, teaching, scientific researcher, management and other disciplines of 
integrated traditional Chinese and Western medicine." The same document indicates that the admission 
ofnew members must be "[a ]pproved by the Organization Committee of the Council." 
The CAD ERM' s constitution states: 
Scientific and technical personnel, managers, and people from all walks of life who are 
engaged in emergency and medical rescue work and have the technical title ofphysician, 
assistant physician ( or equivalent), as well as people from all walks of life who support 
medical rescue work, can apply to become individual members ofthis association. 
The document also indicates that prospective members must "[h]]ave a certain influence in the 
association's business (industry, discipline) field" (sic), and that membership applications are 
"[ d]iscussed and approved by an organization approved by the Standing Council." 
The CMEA' s constitution indicates that membership is open to "[p]]ractitioners of medicine, pharmacy 
and medical education, relevant experts and scholars" who "[h]ave certain influence and appeal within 
the business scope of the Association." Membership applications are "[d]iscussed and approved by the 
Standing Council of the Association or its authorized agencies." The only specified requirements for 
Council membership are membership in the CMEA and "a professional title of deputy senior or higher 
or ... certain administrative positions in the unit." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence did not show 
that any of the listed associations have qualifying membership requirements. 
In response, the Petitioner resubmitted materials regarding the CMEA, CADERM, and SACIM, asserted 
that the Director did not consider the full implications ofthe submitted materials. For example, regarding 
the CMEA' s requirement that members must "[h ]ave certain influence and appeal within the business 
scope of the Association," the Petitioner stated that the Director "fails to recognize that ... attaining a 
'certain level of influence' in the field necessitates making outstanding achievements in the field." 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not established that "certain achievements" 
or "influence" "are considered analogous to outstanding achievements." The Director also concluded 
that the Petitioner had not shown that national or international experts judge membership applications for 
the specified associations as required to meet the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "does not disclose the reason why the USCIS (U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services) remains unpersuaded," and "should explain the reasons why 
USCIS is not exercising discretion in favor of the [Petitioner]." But the Director adequately explained 
that the submitted membership materials do not show that the associations require a level of achievement 
commensurate with what the regulation requires. The Petitioner, who bears the burden ofproof, has not 
established that "attaining a 'certain level of influence' in the field necessitates making outstanding 
3 
achievements in the field." Requiring "achievements" is not the same as requmng "outstanding 
achievements," because not every achievement rises to the level ofbeing outstanding. Also, the Petitioner 
did not establish that nationally or internationally recognized experts make membership decisions, as the 
regulation requires. 
The membership information in the record is not sufficiently detailed to establish that the CMEA, 
CAD ERM, and SACIM require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields as required by the regulation. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of online articles from Sina, Ifeng, and Sohu, detailing his career and 
describing his routine, with the example of a patient whose spinal condition caused numbness. The lfeng 
and Sohu articles both include disclaimers. Ifeng' s disclaimer indicates that the content was "uploaded 
and posted by the user of ... a social media platform." Sohu's disclaimer reads: "The views in this article 
only represent the author's own. Sohn is an information publishing platform and Sohn only provides 
information storage space services." The Sina article includes no such disclaimer, ending with two 
credits: "Source: News Express" and the name ofthe "Editor in charge." The Petitioner initially asserted 
that the named editor is the author of the article, but the credit is ambiguous. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the articles appear to be promotional materials that 
appeared on user-edited "web portals," rather than media coverage about the Petitioner. The Director 
also noted that the articles do not identify their respective authors as the regulation requires. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "Sina News is a major media outlet in China," rather than a site that 
posts user-submitted content. The Petitioner does not claim, on appeal, that any other submitted article 
satisfies the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts: "The [Sina] article ... was authored and reviewed by news professionals," and 
"was reviewed by the Editor in Charge." In the English translation, the editor's name and title appear at 
the end ofthe article without further context or elaboration. The information does not reveal whether the 
individual is an editor at Sina or at News Express. The Petitioner does not cite to any record information 
about "News Express," the identified source of the article, to show that it is staffed by "news 
professionals." Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). Without background 
information about "News Express," we are left with an effectively anonymous article, and insufficient 
information as to how this article came to be published on Sina's website. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) also requires submission of"any necessary translation." The 
Petitioner submitted English translations of the Chinese-language articles, along with translator's 
certifications for the articles as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3), including the attestation "I have made 
4 
the attached translations." But several anomalies lead us to question whether the translation certifications 
actually apply to the translated materials to which the Petitioner attached them. The certifications are 
dated November 20, 2022, nearly a year before the publication dates ofthe submitted articles in October 
2023. The certifications do not identify the materials translated, instead referring generically to "the 
attached translations." Also, markings printed on the English versions ofthe Sina and Ifeng articles show 
that they are machine translations, automatically generated by Google Translate rather than prepared by 
a human translator. 
For the above reasons, the Sina article does not meet all the regulatory requirements. As noted above, the 
Petitioner does not claim on appeal that the other previously submitted articles meet the regulatory 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that the individual has performed in a leading or 
critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or 
establishment. For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the person is (or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, the evidence 
must establish that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
the activities of the organization or establishment or those of a division or department thereof. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical role 
can be particularly helpful in making this determination, so long as the letters contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, 
establishment, division, or department was leading or critical. Id. Evidence of experience must consist 
ofletters from employers. Id., citing 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l). 
After a petitioner establishes the leading or critical nature of the person's role, USCIS then determines 
whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which the person holds or 
held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
In this instance, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met his burden of proof to establish 
that his roles were leading or critical. 
The Petitioner initially sought to satisfy this criterion through documentation of his various professional 
activities. In the RFE, the Director stated that the submitted evidence did not show that the Petitioner's 
roles were leading or critical for The Director noted that 
several ofthe documents submitted under this criterion did not appear to relate to either ofthose hospitals. 
The Director stated: "the petitioner may submit ... [l]etters from current or former employer(s) or 
trainer(s) with personal knowledge of the significance of the petitioner's leading or critical role." The 
Director also stated that, if such letters "are unavailable, the petitioner may submit ... [ d]ocumentary 
evidence to demonstrate how the petitioner's role was/is leading or critical." The Petitioner responded 
5 
by submitting copies ofpreviously submitted materials and new documents. The Petitioner did not submit 
employers' letters. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's evidence, but stated: "USCIS considers 
reference letters from current or former employers to be primary evidence under this criterion," and the 
Petitioner had not submitted such letters. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the regulations do not require the submission of employers' letters 
to the exclusion of all other evidence. The Petitioner notes that, in the RFE, the Director specified other 
types of evidence that the Petitioner could submit if employers' letters were not available. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director, in the RFE, indicated that other evidence would be 
acceptable in the absence ofemployers' letters. We also agree with the Petitioner that the absence ofsuch 
letters, by itself, does not in all cases prevent a petitioner from satisfying the requirements ofthis criterion. 
Nevertheless, without such letters, the burden remains on the Petitioner to establish that his roles were 
leading or critical. 
Also, the Director did not stop at the conclusion that the Petitioner had not submitted employers' letters. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner's evidence is not sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden 
of proof We agree, as explained below. 
The Petitioner asserted that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his former position as a 
spine surgeon at I Iand his current role as associate chief surgeon in the 
Spine Surgery Department of I I In his initial statement, the Petitioner cited his 
"extensive research work" and "significant number of clinical tasks." The Petitioner added that he "has 
also represented I in external affairs. As a representative ofl Ihe served 
as the Vice President o The Petitioner further pointed to 
his participation at academic conferences, assessment of resident physicians, and "the compilation of [a] 
textbook." 
As noted above, statements in a brief such as the Petitioner's introductory statement are not evidence, and 
therefore we tum to the supporting evidence submitted with that statement. The Petitioner submitted 
documents relating to his clinical and educational work, showing, for example, that he holds the title 
"associate chief physician"; edited a textbook; and conducted evaluation examinations for resident 
physicians. The Petitioner stated that he "undertook extensive research work" and "a significant number 
of clinical tasks," and "also represented in external affairs." The Petitioner stated that 
these activities demonstrate his "leading and critical role at 
but did not explain how this was so beyond pointing to the activities. 
The Petitioner documented his invitations to participate in several medical conferences, and asserted that 
these invitations show "that he is widely recognized in the field oforthopedic spine surgery." Recognition 
is a factor to consider in the final merits determination. The Petitioner did not explain how these 
conference invitations demonstrate a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
6 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that his "critical role inl lean be reflected in 
two major as ects: his position as the Vice President of on behalf of 
and his si nificant contributions to medical treatment m the Department of 
Orthopedics, _____ 
The Petitioner's response did not include any letters attesting to the leading or critical nature of his roles. 
The Petitioner submitted materials relating to his vice presidency ofl I He did not claim thatl I 
has a distinguished reputation in its own right. Rather, he asserted that he held this title "on behalf of 
which is about 600 miles or 1,000 kilometers northeast ofl I The materials do 
not address how the Petitioner's position atl Iwas leading or critical for I 
The Petitioner resubmitted medical records and other materials intended to show his "contributions to 
daily medical treatment." The submitted materials show the Petitioner's active involvement in patient 
treatment and academic discourse, but without further context they do not suffice to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's role at I I was not only productive and helpful, but also leading or critical. 
The title of associate chief physician may show a leading role within the context of the Orthopedics 
Department, depending on the duties, but then the Petitioner would need to establish that department's 
distinguished reputation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(1). 
The Petitioner repeated the assertion that, by attending academic conferences, he "represented __ 
I I in external affairs." Materials from the conferences do not indicate that the Petitioner was invited 
to participate as a representative of I 
The Director concluded the submitted documents "merely demonstrate that [the Petitioner has] been 
active in [his] field." The Director also stated that, without further context, "USCIS is unable to evaluate 
the informational materials." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously "submitted material ... clearly demonstrated how 
his performance in the role was critical." The Petitioner repeats and expands upon prior arguments about 
"his position as the Vice President ofl I on behalf ofl I 
... and his significant contributions to medical treatment [ atl I The Petitioner asserts 
that "[h]]is high volume of successful operations and effective team leadership have contributed to the 
hospital's reputation for excellence." 
The Petitioner has not satisfactory explained how his work at was critical for 
The assertion that he was at because appointed him to the position does not 
suffice in this regard. 
In terms of patient care atl Ithe Petitioner held a leadership position below the top rank 
within the Orthopedics Department. The Petitioner has provided institutional information about the 
hospital as a whole, but has not demonstrated that the Orthopedics Department has a distinguished 
reputation in its own right. The evidence is ambiguous as to whether the Petitioner's role in patient care 
was particularly critical within the staffing structure that included many other physicians and surgeons. 
7 
The Petitioner has maintained throughout this proceeding that the evidence illustrates his leading or 
critical roles, but, as noted above, statements in the appellate brief are not evidence. Matter ofS-M-, 
22 I&N Dec. at 51. 
The incomplete evidence relating to the Petitioner's various roles is not sufficient to meet his burden of 
proof to satisfy the requirements ofthe criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of "Income Tax Queries" showing the Petitioner's "Total Income" from 
January 2020 to June 2023. The Petitioner stated that he also submitted "payment records of individual 
income" that "corroborate [the] income statement," but the "Payment Record[s] oflndividual Income" 
show figures that do not match the totals on the income tax queries: 
Year Total Income Total Tax Declared Payment Record 
2020 ¥691,699 ¥71,616 ¥95,203 
2021 1,078,366 164,843 193,377 
2022 927,014 110,912 254,470 (2022-23 combined) 
2023 815,131 138,754 
The Petitioner did not explain why, or even acknowledge that, the figures on the two sets of documents 
do not match. 
The payment records indicate that the Petitioner received "Salary Income" and, separately, 
"Remuneration for Personal Services." 
The Petitioner cited statistics from Sala,y Explorer showing that the 2024 average salary for a 
"doctor/physician" in China is ¥811,000, with a range between ¥303,600 and ¥1,392,000. The printout 
indicates: "The provided figure represents the median compensation that encompasses housing, 
transportation, and other perks. The salaries within the Doctor/Physician domain in China exhibit 
significant discrepancies across various professions." The printout also referred to "the salaries listed 
below" for specific medical specialties, but the Petitioner did not submit that information. 
The Petitioner also submitted a printout from Comparably, showing the average salary for a "spine 
surgeon" in the United States. This information does not apply in this proceeding, because the Petitioner 
has worked exclusively in China. We evaluate persons working outside ofthe United States based on the 
wage statistics or comparable evidence relevant to the applicable work location, rather than by converting 
the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United 
States. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the submitted evidence was not sufficient, because it did not "identify 
the source of income," and because the totals shown on the payment records of individual income "are 
actually less than [the salaries of] other physicians in his native country." The Director requested more 
specific and complete information, to establish both the Petitioner's remuneration and reliable 
comparative figures. 
8 
In response, the Petitioner provides updated figures, showing that he earned ¥1,635,070 in 2023. The 
Petitioner suggests that the Director misinterpreted the prior partial-year figures as representing a full 
year's remuneration. The 2023 figures, more detailed than what the Petitioner submitted for 2020-22, 
identify 13 different sources of "General Labor Remuneration," "Normal Wage and Salary," and "Other 
Non-Discontinuous Labor Remuneration." 
The Petitioner resubmitted the comparative data from Salary Explorer, along with figures from other 
sources. The Economic Research Institute stated that the average "Medical Doctor Salary in China" is 
¥717,669 per year, plus an "Average Bonus" of ¥29,568. Figures from Glassdoor show a range from 
¥200,000 to ¥500,000, with an average of ¥470,000, for "Physicians." A printout from World Salaries 
indicated: "A Doctor working in China will typically earn around 836,500 CNY per year," with figures 
ranging from ¥433,800 to ¥1,283,600. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had documented "several income streams from 
various organizations" and had not shown how much of his income was for his work as a spine surgeon. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the comparative salary figures for 
"doctors" and "physicians" accurately reflect the average remuneration of spine surgeons. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: "It is unreasonable for the reviewing officer to question whether the 
salary of a spine surgeon from a hospital is actually for performing spine surgeries. As a specialist in 
spine surgery, the petitioner's income is undoubtedly from his medical work." Among the 13 identified 
payment sources in the RFE response are several hospitals, but also the I I and the I I The Petitioner did not document that these 
entities paid him for performing spinal surgeries. The Petitioner also had administrative duties, such as 
his vice presidency ofl IThe burden of proof is on the Petitioner to establish the circumstances of 
his remuneration, and the Petitioner's unsupported assertion that all his income must, by definition, have 
come from performing spinal surgery has no evidentiary weight. 
Regarding the salary data, the Petitioner asserts that, "as a spine surgeon, [the Petitioner] is unequivocally 
a medical doctor." There are numerous medical specialties, and the burden is on the Petitioner to establish 
that the submitted salary figures include and reflect salaries paid to surgeons. The Petitioner's prior 
submission of Comparably salary data specifically for "spine surgeons" establishes that statistics are 
gathered with that level of specificity. 
Also, the Glassdoor printout for "Physicians" includes this passage: "Some related job titles are Doctor 
Salaries with median pay of CN¥19,926, Medical Doctor Salaries with median pay of CN¥686,871." 
This documented distinction between "physicians" and "medical doctors," with widely disparate median 
pay figures, is further evidence that relevant statistics are not compiled under one comprehensive heading. 
The Petitioner has submitted inconsistent figures relating to his own remuneration, and has not shown 
that the salary statistics he submitted present an accurate average or range of salaries for spine surgeons 
in China. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden ofproofrelating 
to this regulatory criterion. 
9 
For the reasons explained above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to 
satisfy the requirements of at least three ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we reserve 
the separate issue of whether the Petitioner has established that he intends to continue in his area of 
expertise in the United States. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like 
courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the 
results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
While the Petitioner has submitted hundreds ofpages of documentation, the submitted evidence provides 
an incomplete picture of his medical career to allow us to fully assess whether he is one of a small percent 
at the top of his field. For example, the record contains no direct evidence ofhis medical degree to show 
the year of issuance and give a full picture of the length of his career; the only reference to his education 
appears in a submitted article. As another example of an ambiguous or unsupported claim, the 
introductory brief submitted with the petition indicates that the Petitioner "has been working in . . . 
orthopedic spine surgery for decades," but the record does not document activity in the specific field 
before 2012, at most 12 years before the petition's January 2024 filing date. 
The materials also lack complete details of his duties with his former and current employers. The 
materials refer to him as a surgeon, but do not show how much time he spends on research, administrative 
duties, supervision of subordinates and students, and other tasks that may result from his position at a 
university-affiliated hospital. 2018 certificates from the I Irefer to 
the Petitioner with the title "Professor," a title that also appears in a press release from I 
People's Government. The record provides only fragmentary information about the nature of the 
Petitioner's duties as vice president ofl I 
The Petitioner has made claims about the significance ofmuch of the evidence, such as his invitations to 
participate in conferences, which lack sufficient evidentiary support. The evidence indicates a successful 
10 I 
and productive career, but lacks sufficient context to show that the Petitioner has reached the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner has submitted three articles about his career, but the circumstances of their publication are 
not fully documented and leave questions. All were published within days of one another in late October 
2023, shortly before the preparation and filing of the petition. Two of them -both published in the 
"Finance" or "Business" sections of the respective publications -include disclaimers indicating the 
articles were submitted by unidentified users. 
The three articles are similar in tone, with overlapping details such as the Petitioner's travel to Germany, 
his involvement in China's "863 Program," and his treatment of a patient experiencing numbness from 
spondylosis. The translations of all three articles sometimes use identical language, such as the statement 
that the Petitioner completes "an average ofmore than 500 spinal surgeries every year." The similarities 
in the three articles, together with their almost simultaneous publication, are consistent with common 
authorship or origin from a common source. Cf Hamal v. US. Dep 't ofHomeland Security, No. 19-
2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (holding that identical language in submitted letters 
"suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into question the persuasive value 
ofthe letters' content"). The publication of these three similar articles shortly before the petition's filing 
date does not show a broader history of sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2024 In Re: 34886094 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, but the Director determined 
the Petitioner fulfilled only the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and the 
judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 1 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets 
the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 2 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the 
American Society ofCivil Engineers (ASCE). As evidence for this criterion, he presented a certificate 
indicating that he was elected a Member in the ASCE. He also submitted the ASCE's bylaws stating 
that "[t]he standard required for admission to the Society's grade of Member means definite 
responsibility for engineering work of substantial importance."3 The Petitioner, however, has not 
demonstrated that "responsibility for engineering work of substantial importance" rises to the level of 
"outstanding achievements" in civil engineering. Nor has the Petitioner shown that his admission to 
Member was judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. For 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not established he meets this criterion. 
1 We disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and we will address this issue in our decision. 
2 In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings that he did not meet the awards criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and therefore he has not 
overcome the Director's determination on these issues. We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not raised or 
contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 
330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
3 The bylaws do not elaborate on what constitutes "engineering work of substantial importance," but they identify two 
higher grades of membership above the Petitioner's "Member" level (Fellow and Distinguished Member). For example, 
the bylaws state that the grade of "Distinguished Member" is reserved for those who "have attained eminence in some 
branch ofengineering or in the arts and sciences related thereto. Eminence is recognized superiority in position, character, 
and achievement through significant contributions to the profession." 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 5 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 6 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an article about him in The Globee, entitled 
"[The Petitioner]:.__ _____________________________ 
but the date and author of the material were not included as required by this criterion. In addition, the 
Petitioner has not presented evidence showing that The Globee is a professional or major trade 
publication or other form of major media. 
The Petitioner also submitted an article about him, entitled [the Petitioner] -
_______________ (2023), posted on NewsBreak.com, a news aggregation 
site which collects content from other media and recommends content based on a user's interests and 
location. 7 The conclusion of the article states: "Connect with [the Petitioner] to delve deeper into his 
groundbreaking initiatives by visiting his official website at https://wwwj lcom. You can also 
establish a direct line of communication with him through email at I lcom." The 
website, wwwl lcom, is that of the Petitioner's employer, 
Marketing materials created for the purpose of promoting a person's services are not generally 
considered to be published material about the person (this includes seemingly objective content about 
the person in major print publications that the person or the person's employer paid for). 8 Moreover, 
the evidence does not indicate whether the article was produced by NewsBreak.com staff or some 
other news outlet, as opposed to the article appearing on an open-source site through which anyone 
can post content. I 
As evidence that NewsBreak.com is a form of major media, the Petitioner initially submitted 
information from Similarweb.com indicating that NewsBreak.com had 22.9M "Total Visits Last 3 
Months."9 In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted updated 
information (June 2024) from Similarweb.com indicating that NewsBreak.com had 18.4M "Total 
Visits Last 3 Months." In addition, he provided Similarweb.com data for "Total Visits Last 3 Months" 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
5 Id. 
6 Id. 
7 This article includes a heading on each page indicating that it received zero comments from readers. 
8 Id. 
9 The Petitioner asserted that NewsBreak is "a major media in Fort W 01ih, Texas" that "circulates across the United States 
with a wide coverage in the areas." 
3 
for TexasTribune .org (4.2M), DallasNews .com (6.06M), and TexasMontly.com (l.9M). 10 The 
Petitioner , however, has not demonstrated that this limited comparison to only three media sources he 
selected is sufficient to render NewsBreak.com a form of major media. The record does not include 
sufficient readership data comparing NewsBreak.com to other U.S. news publications to show that 
NewsBreak.com rises to the level of major media. 
For the above reasons, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies this 
regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 11 As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters discussing his 
transportation engineering projects in Texas. The Director considered this documentation but found 
that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 's work constituted original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director disregarded the submitted letters of 
recommendation, including "those that provide specific information regarding the Petitioner's original 
roadway design." The Petitioner's references discussed his transportation engineering projects, but 
their statements do not demonstrate the originality of his work and its major significance in the field.12 
As discussed below, the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the 
record include adequate corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original 
contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major 
significance. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work on the project, P-U-, Senior Project Manager 
at ______________ stated that the Petitioner contributed to "operational 
improvements of numerous major grade separations to maximize mobility and safety in West Texas." 
P-U-further indicated that the Petitioner's "work on innovative design to enhance mobility and safety 
was a fundamental contribution to the state and our firm, especially in the way he advanced models 
which revolutionized the designs and executions of those projects," but he does not offer specific 
examples of how the Petitioner work onl Ihas influenced the field ofcivil engineering in a major 
way or has otherwise been considered important at a level consistent with original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's workl IJ-P-, a Project Manager at and Past President of 
the ASCE noted that the Petitioner's projects included: I 
1 I 
I I J-P-stated that 
10 This limited number of examples the Petitioner selected, however, did not include news sources such as The Dallas 
Morning News, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, and Houston Chronicle with higher levels ofreadership. 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)( 1 ). 
12 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
"[n Jot only was [the Petitioner] just a member of a team that handled these projects, he was a key part 
of the projects as he handled what engineering professionals would easily regard as critical and 
sensitive parts of the projects." The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his original work 
on the aforementioned projects has affected the field in a substantial way (beyond his employer and its 
projects) or that his transportation project engineering work otherwise constitutes original contributions 
of major significance in the civil engineering field. 
In addition, T-H-, Chief Executive Officer atl lindicated that the Petitioner "made a research 
and development breakthrough" that has improved highway design workflow. T-H-further 
explained: 
[The Petitioner] developed an approach to assign localized geospatial coordinate data 
to our graphics files which created new opportunities for our team to simplify 
integration of client data, improve coordination of 3rd party information, and design 
with publicly available aerial and mapping data sets stored in dissimilar geospatial 
formats. [The Petitioner's] innovation has improved our Transportation Group's 
capability to accelerate project development for our clients by opening access to new 
sources of data that support our engineering decision making and design development 
approach. 
While T-H-discussed the Petitioner's impact on his company's Transportation Group, he does not 
explain how the Petitioner's method to assign localized geospatial coordinate data to graphics 
files rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance in the civil engineering field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work for the roadway project, D-P-M-, Director of 
Transportation Services at I Istated: 
[The Petitioner] demonstrated his engineering innovation and expertise, developing a 
unique solution for the project's new connection with the I I 
[The Petitioner] identified that inadequate driver visibility to stop safely was critical to 
prevent accidents and ensure smooth traffic flow for _______ new 
intersection location. [The Petitioner] prioritized the design revision to shift the design 
location for the intersection ensuring that the I Iintersection with 
I Iprovided a safe solution .... 
[The Petitioner] was entrusted with the responsibility of designing the entire project. ... 
[The Petitioner] was the critical team member developing and integrating all aspects of 
the design, including determining the optimal roadway alignment by addressing road 
geometrics to managing drainage solutions, minimize ROW impacts, and limit 
environmental impacts. He developed 3D models of the proposed design to identify 
issues unique to this project and confirm the design's intent and solutions addressed 
project goals and requirements. His leadership and technical skills were crucial in 
ensuring that the project met all federal design requirements for safety and functionality. 
5 
[The Petitioner] developed an outstanding design with several unique and original design 
solutions that will provide a long-term benefit to the community and State of Texas. 
D-P-M-, however, does not offer specific examples of how the Petitioner's development work on the 
project has influenced his field or industry to the extent that it is of major 
significance in the field of civil or transportation engineering. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated 
that the level of attention received by his original transportation engineering design solutions signifies 
that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 13 
In this case, the recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner do not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that his specific civil 
engineering work is viewed throughout his field, rather than by a solicited few, as having risen to the 
level of original contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our 
decisions concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's 
employers, clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. 
May 31, 2019) (upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily evidence of a 
track record of success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held evidence 
insufficient "because it did not show widespread replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his original work has affected his field at a level commensurate with 
contributions of major significance in the field. He therefore has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner presented his compensation table from I I listing his "new salary effective 
September 2, 2023." His compensation table lists a "Base Salary" of $97,500. It also includes non­
guaranteed compensation such as supplemental pay (based on "hours beyond the normal 40-43-hour 
workweek" that are "difficult to quantify") and an annual performance bonus ("discretionary and not 
guaranteed"), as well as other company benefits including a phone allowance and 401k matching 
funds. The Petitioner's non-guaranteed compensation and company benefits from are not part 
of his salary. While the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) also allows for evidence of 
"other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field," the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence showing that his supplemental pay, bonus, and other company benefits are 
"significantly high" compared to other civil engineers. The Petitioner also submitted his September 
2023 -December 2023 payroll statements from showing biweekly "Regular" earnings of$3,750 
or $97,500 yearly. 14 
13 The Petitioner's RFE response included a Texas Department of Transportation "Notice of Public Meeting" regarding 
the project, but it does not mention the Petitioner or highlight the major significance of his original 
design and development work in the field. 
14 In response to the Director's RFE. the Petitioner offered his 2023 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, from 
showing "Wages, tips. other compensation of $96,394" and ·'Social Security wages" of $104,078 (which likely included 
any bonus or overtime pay that was not part of his salary). 
6 
In addition, the Petitioner provided an April 2022 letter from 
offering him the position of "Project Engineer" with a salary of "$105,000 per year." He also 
submitted his May 2022 -July 2022 pay statements from indicating biweekly "Regular" earnings 
of $4,038.46 or $105,000 yearly. 15 
For this criterion, USCIS determines whether the person's salary is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working in the field. 16 The Petitioner provided May 2022 national wage estimates from 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) showing Civil Engineers in the 75th and 90th percentiles 
earning $117,540 and $138,690, respectively. According to the submitted BLS regional data, the 
"annual mean wage" for Civil Engineers in __________ Texas was $93,760 and in 
Texas it was $93,970. In addition, the Petitioner provided "Average Transportation Engineer Salary" 
information from Payscale.com, "average Project Engineer -Transportation salary" data from 
Salary.com, and "average Transportation Project Engineer" salary information from 
Comparably.com. 17 Regarding an "average" or "mean wage" earnings comparison, this criterion 
requires the Petitioner to offer evidence showing that he has commanded a "high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration" relative to others in the field and not just a salary that is above average 
in his field. 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the 
field. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter 
of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings 
versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 
713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the 
Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. Accordingly, he has not established that he 
fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner meets the judging criterion, but he has not established he satisfies the criteria relating 
to awards, memberships, published material, original contributions, leading or critical role, and high 
salary. Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three ofthe initial criteria is dispositive ofhis appeal, 
15 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner offered his 2022 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, from 
showing wages of $21,956. 
16 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
17 The Director's decision noted that the salary information from Comparably.com, Payscale.com, and Salary.com is 
limited to those who reported their salaries to those websites and therefore the burden is on the Petitioner to establish the 
accuracy of the self-reported information. When evaluating whether a comparison between an individual's documented 
remuneration and the remuneration in the survey is accurate, USCIS considers "the validity of the survey. Some websites 
provide user-rep011ed salary data, which may not be a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported their salaries 
or the data is otherwise not credible or reliable." Id. 
7 
we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. We therefore reserve this issue. 18 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories ofgravitation) (stating that"[c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it 
is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
18 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516. 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 13, 2024 In Re: 34947283 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
Since 2011, the Petitioner -a professor of law and economics -has sought classification under the 
employment-based, frrst-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Since affirming his petition's denial by the Director of the Texas Service Center in 
2014, we have dismissed the Petitioner's following 17 motions and combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. See In Re: 31764796 (AAO July 12, 2024). 
The matter returns to us again on the Petitioner's combined motions. He contends that our latest 
opinion errs by not following the recent United States Supreme Court decision in Loper Bright 
Enterprises v. Raimondo, 144 S.Ct. 2244 (2024). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon 
review, we conclude that his motion to reopen does not meet regulatory requirements and that his 
motion to reconsider does not demonstrate Loper's applicability to these proceedings . We will 
therefore dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts, supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
In contrast, a motion to reconsider must establish that our latest decision misapplies law or policy 
based on the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is 
limited to our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i), (ii) (referencing "the prior decision" and "the 
latest decision") . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. 
II. MOTION TO REOPEN 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen contains a copy of the Loper decision's first page. He argues that 
this documentary evidence supports "new facts." 
Regulations indicate, however, that petitioners must include relevant precedent decisions in motions 
to reconsider, not in motions to reopen. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) (stating that a motion to reconsider 
must include "any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or Service policy"). Also, the Loper decision contains new law, not "new facts" 
regarding the Petitioner's case. We therefore find that the copy of Loper's first page applies to the 
Petitioner's motion to reconsider but does not constitute new facts for his motion to reopen. 1 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen omits any other documentary evidence. Contrary to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2), the motion does not state new facts, supported by documentary evidence. We must 
dismiss "[a] motion that does not meet applicable requirements." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Thus, we 
will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
III. MOTION TO RECONSIDER 
A. Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo 
The Petitioner contends that, in dismissing his latest motions, we misinterpreted the Act. He argues 
that, under Loper, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) "is no longer allowed its 
expansive interpretation of the statute to dismiss EB-I petitions" and "needs to be held to the strict 
language of the statute." 
Loper overturned Chevron USA v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984), ruling 
that federal courts need not defer to agencies' reasonable interpretations of ambiguous federal laws. 
Rather, Loper provides the judiciary with the sole prerogative to "say what the law is," stating: "Courts 
must exercise their independent judgment in deciding whether an agency has acted within its statutory 
authority." Loper, 144 S. Ct. at 2257, 2273. 
The Petitioner misrelies on Loper. First, Loper affects federal courts, not federal agencies. A federal 
court reviewing our interpretation of an ambiguous statute must follow Loper. But Loper does not 
change how we interpret such laws. 
Second, Loper involved an agency's interpretation of a statute. Loper, 144 S.Ct. at 2254-56. In 
dismissing the Petitioner's motions and appeals, we interpreted regulations. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x) (listing ten evidentiary criteria, at least three of which a petitioner seeking to 
immigrate as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability must meet if they did not receive a major 
international award). Even if the regulations are ambiguous, our interpretation of them would merit 
deference under Auer v. Robbins, 519 U.S. 452 ( 1997), which Loper did not reverse. See, e.g., United 
States v. Boler, 115 F .4th 316, 322 n.4 ( 4th Cir. 2024) ( declining to apply Loper to an issue involving 
an agency's interpretation of its own regulations). 
For the foregoing reasons, Loper did not affect our latest decision. The Petitioner's argument therefore 
does not persuade us. 
1 As discussed below, even ifwe considered the decision page as part of the Petitioner's motion to reopen. Loper would 
not demonstrate the petition's eligibility for reopening. 
2 
B. Factual Errors 
The Petitioner also contends that our latest decision contains factual errors. He states that we 
misdescribed him as a "former professor." He states that he is not only a current professor but also a 
judge, actuary, accountant, and author. He also contends that our decision errs in stating "his 
completion of a handful of introductory courses in a civil engineering curriculum." He maintains that 
he has five years of university studies in that field. He argues that we "created" the misinformation 
"to diminish [his] career." 
Assuming that we erred in our description ofthe Petitioner and his civil engineering studies, the record 
shows that these errors did not affect our latest decision's outcome. Our description ofhim as a former 
professor had no bearing on our dismissal of his motions. Also, our latest decision did not seek to 
emphasize the extent of his civil engineering studies. Rather, our point was that he did not demonstrate 
how his civil engineering studies "support his eligibility for this classification as a professor of law 
and economics." 
In sum, our descriptions ofthe Petitioner and his civil engineering studies were immaterial to our latest 
decision's analysis. See Animal Legal Def Fund v. US Dep't ofAgric., 789 F.3d 1206, 1224 n.13 
(11th Cir. 2015) ("An agency decision is harmless when a mistake of the administrative body is one 
that clearly had no bearing on the procedure used or the substance of the decision reached.") 2; see 
generally Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 350 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing cases regarding harmless 
or scrivener's errors). The errors therefore do not merit the petition's reconsideration. 
C. The Petitioner's Requests 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider also contains requests. First, he asks us to tell the Director to 
issue him an employment authorization document (EAD). See, e.g., 8 C.F.R. § 274a.12(c)(9) 
( allowing noncitizens who have filed applications for adjustment of status to work in the United 
States). 
But we lack authority over applications for, or the issuance of, EADs. See Dep't of Homeland Sec. 
Delegation No. 0150 .1 ( effective Mar. 1, 2003) ( delegating appellate jurisdiction to the Administrative 
Appeals Office over the matters listed in former 8 C.F.R. § 103.l(f)(3)(iii)). We are therefore unable 
to fulfill this request. 
The Petitioner also asks us to reopen and reconsider his petition on our own motion. Under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(5), we can unilaterally decide to reopen or reconsider applications and petitions. See 
l USCIS Policy Manual F., retired Adjudicator's Field Manual, Chapter 10.17(c), 
www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that an officer may reopen a petition on USCIS motion if "a 
petition should not have been approved but there are no specifically applicable grounds for revocation 
in the regulations, or ... a petition should not have been denied"). 
2 The Petitioner resides in the eleventh federal judicial circuit. Precedent decisions of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Eleventh Circuit therefore bind us in this matter. See Matter of Rivens, 25 I&N Dec. 623,629 (BIA 2011). 
3 
But we decline to reopen or reconsider the petition on our own motion. First, the Petitioner's motions 
already ask us to reopen or reconsider the filing. Second, his arguments do not persuade us that we 
erred in dismissing his latest motions. 
The Petitioner further requests our de novo review of the entire record. He claims that he presented 
"more evidence than needed" to satisfy at least three of the initial evidentiary requirements. 
As we stated in our prior decision, however, the Petitioner has not identified specific errors warranting 
the petition's reconsideration. See, e.g., Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("[A] 
motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented 
... and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior ... decision"). We decline to 
re-adjudicate the petition. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen does not meet regulatory requirements. The motion to reconsider does not 
establish that our latest decision misapplies law or policy. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 13, 2024 In Re: 34905333 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a hydrologist who seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal and two subsequent motions -first, a motion to reconsider, followed 
by a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, both of which we dismissed as untimely. The matter 
is now before us on a third motion -another combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
As a preliminary matter, we noted that the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the 
latest decision in the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Therefore, we will only consider 
new evidence to the extent that it pertains to our latest decision dismissing the combined motion to 
reopen and reconsider as untimely. 
First, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reopen, which must state new facts and be supported 
by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 
1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
On motion, the Petitioner offers evidence that only addresses deficiencies discussed in the Director's 
denial, but she does not provide new facts pertaining to our prior decision to dismiss her combined 
motion due to its untimely filing. Because the Petitioner has not established new facts that would 
warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to reopen our prior decision. We will not 
re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
Next, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, which must establish that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
As stated earlier, our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. 
In this matter, our latest decision contemplated the propriety of our dismissal of the Petitioner's first 
motion - a motion to reconsider -on the basis that it was untimely filed. In our prior decision, we 
summarized the instructions for filing a motion to reconsider, including where to file and the 30-day 
filing deadline, which allows three additional days for mailing. We also acknowledged that the filing 
deadline ended on a federal and therefore allowed another day, in addition to the three allowed for 
mailing, in calculating the Petitioner's filing deadline. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i) and 103.8(b). 
Ultimately, after applying these parameters, we determined that the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, 
which U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) received 12 days after the filing deadline, 
was correctly dismissed. We then pointed out that the shipping label on the subsequent motion -the 
combined to reopen and reconsider that is the subject of this current proceeding -was mailed on the 
filing deadline for that motion. However, as noted in our latest decision, the filing date is not the date 
a filing is mailed, but rather the date it is properly received by USCTS in accordance with filing 
instructions. See generally I USCIS Policy Manual B.6(C), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Because the Petitioner's prior combined motion was not received by USCTS by the deadline, but rather 
one week after that deadline, we determined that that motion was also untimely filed and dismissed it 
on that basis. We cited the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i), which states that an extension of 
the filing deadline is not permitted for motions to reconsider. And while we acknowledged that this 
regulation permits us to use discretion in excusing an untimely filing of a motion to reopen, we noted 
that the untimeliness may only be excused upon a petitioner's showing that the delay was reasonable 
and beyond their control. We determined, however, that the Petitioner's claim that "it was difficult 
for me [the Petitioner] to finish printing everything just in time" did not qualify as reasonable and 
beyond the Petitioner's control. As such, the untimely filing ofthe Petitioner's motion to reopen could 
not be excused. 
On current motion, the Petitioner apologizes for the untimely filing, stating that "it was not in my 
hands to send you [sic] on time." The Petitioner does not, however, dispute the correctness of our 
decision to dismiss her motion on the basis of its untimely filing. Rather, the Petitioner discusses and 
seeks further consideration of the Director's denial, which was based on evidentiary deficiencies 
pertaining to the Petitioner's claimed eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. In sum, the Petitioner seeks to reargue facts and issues that we had already considered, but 
she does not address the basis of our prior decision to dismiss her combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. See e.g., Matter of 0-S-G-, 24 T&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is 
not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board decision"). 
2 
We may grant motions that satisfy the motion requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the 
requested benefit, and we will not re-adjudicate the petition anew. The Petitioner does not establish 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. Therefore, 
the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 13, 2024 In Re: 34834118 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate 
their extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics through sustained 
national or international acclaim, and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. Subsequently, the Petitioner filed a 
motion to reconsider the decision. The Director denied the motion, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not meet the requirements to reconsider the decision. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .3. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the 
evidence. Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
When denying the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for the denial. 8 C.F .R. § 
103.3(a)(l)(i) ; see also, Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must 
fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to 
challenge the determination on appeal). In this instance, the Director did not provide any analysis of 
the record to support the conclusions that the motion was deficient. The Director also stated that the 
Petitioner did not provide additional evidence, a statement regarding judicial proceedings , or any 
changes within immigration law. These are not considerations for a motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We will therefore remand the matter to the Director for issuance of a new decision 
based on the record of proceedings. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23271189 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neurobiology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner has filed two appeals of the Director's decision. We sustained the other appeal, which 
has rendered this one moot, and it will be dismissed on that basis. 1 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner filed two separate appeals of the Director's decision, and we are adjudicating both today. Sustaining the 
other appeal has rendered this appeal moot, and it will be dismissed on that basis. 
However , because the other appeal I I is being sustained, the end result for the Petitioner will be approval 
of the underlying I-140 petition. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23214150 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field ofl I seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctoral degree in physiology in Chile at ____________ I lin 2012. Some of his doctoral studies took place at academic research institutions in Brazil, 
Chile, the United States, and Italy. The Petitioner most recently entered the United States as an H-lB 
nonimmigrant to work as a researcher/project scientist at the University of I 
In June 2022, he was granted H-lB status to work as a research engineer at _______ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied several of these criteria, relating to original contributions 
of major significance; participation as a judge of the work of others; receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes for excellence in the field; commanding a high salary or significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field; membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members as judged 
by experts in their disciplines or fields; published materials about him in professional or major trade 
publications or major media; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to authorship of articles. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he meets six additional criteria noted above, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets the requisite minimum of three criteria, and that after a 
final merits determination, he merits a first preference immigrant visa as an individual with 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion, and we agree. The Google Scholar database 
showed over 200 citations of his published articles. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
2 
(USCIS) Policy Manual states "a goodly number" of such citations "may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." We believe that is indeed the case 
here and, as such, conclude he has met this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's "original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. " 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
This criterion requires evidence of the person's "original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The first 
step in the analysis is to determine whether the person made an original contribution to the field. 
Group efforts do not lessen the originality of a contribution; all parties identified as part of the group 
are considered to have made the contribution. The phrase "major significance" is not defined by the 
regulations or policy. Therefore, we utilize a plain language reading of the criterion and require a 
person show their contribution made more than a de minimis impact on the field. 
The record contains detailed, probative letters from several research colleagues in the Petitioner's 
field. For example, one colleague describes how the "[Petitioner] has been developing technology, 
new tools, and experimental setups to study I He further explains how he 
and his "collaborators in Brazil and Sweden have been using some of these tools to conduct 
ex eriments where the I I activity of rodents is recorded as they actively perform different 
Another colleague describes how her work with the Petitioner focuses on developing 
recording patches that can be placed ontol lskin in order to record data. 
She explains how the Petitioner is an expert in L I I I and has provided tremendous value in designing, testing, and deploying these 
groundbreaking systems." She also explains that the Petitioner's research contributions are helping 
her deploy a National Institutes of Health (NIH) study in Ukraine for children with 
due to prenatall I exposure. She states: 
Patches are revolutionary and allow researchers to monitor I systems in a 
continuous and noninvasive manner in ways that were previously not possible with 
such ease .... we are only at the tip of the iceberg in this area .... He has conducted 
research on how the I and the interaction between the 
He has worked to understand the 
specifically the impact ofl I on the 
I 
Additional evidence, including several more letter writers attesting in meaningful detail to his original 
contributions to the field of I the award of grants to conduct! I research, and 
his scholarly contributions in the form of scholarly articles that have been repeatedly cited to, all 
support finding that he has made original contributions of major significance in his field. The 
Petitioner has satisfied this criterion by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
3 
To meet this criterion, a pet1t10ner must show evidence of the person's "participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification 
for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The petitioner must show that the 
person has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that the person actually 
participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's role advising undergraduate students at the University 
of in his field of I sciences. The evidence further shows 
that he served as a thesis advisor to graduate students in in Chile. The record contains detailed and 
meaningful letters from colleagues concerning his work judging the work of others in his field. As 
such, he has demonstrated he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, the published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work 
in the field, not just about the person's employer or another organization that the person is associated 
with. In addition, published material that includes only a brief citation or passing reference to the 
person's work is not "about" that person. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535 (S.D.N.Y. 
2012) (articles about the Iranian table tennis team mentioning a person only briefly were not about 
him); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nev. 2008) (articles focusing on a 
character or show were not about the actor). 
The Petitioner submitted three published articles that cover the Petitioner's work. One article titled 
was published in a 
Chilean newspaper of national circulation on 2021. It discusses the Petitioner's work, but 
does not include an author and therefore does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Another article dated 2021 in the Coun News titled! I 
discusses the fact that the Petitioner 
was one of36 scientists nationally who received this grant for research from the National Science 
Foundation (NSF). However, since the article shows no author and appears to have been only 
circulated locall it does not meet the re uirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) either. The final 
article titled datedl J 2019 and written by 
______ was published in Ethology, Zoology Scient[fic News. The English translation of 
this article however, provides no indication about whether this is a professional or major trade 
publication. Nor was any independent evidence provided to show this publication constitutes "major 
media." As such, none of the articles provided meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Final Merits 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, having provided evidence that he meets at 
least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) as a researcher specializing in the area of 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of 
4 
the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
The evidence establishes that, as a researcher at two preeminent educational and research institutions 
in the United States, the Petitioner has achieved sustained acclaim in the field for his work in 
_______ patches that may have the ability to revolutionize research and medical 
practices worldwide. For instance, the patches he developed measure ______ 
continuous monitoring to medical personnel in a noninvasive wa which is 
the care of vulnerable populations such a 
patients. He has demonstrated the effectiveness of his research and its application by gaining 
prestigious funding awards from national research institutions and foundations including NIH, NSF, 
and the I I Institute. Furthermore, his colleagues describe him as a leader in his field and 
someone who is sought out to present at scientific meetings and in seminars organized by important 
research institutes. The three articles provided show that his work has garnered international 
recognition, with one article published in a Chilean national newspaper, and another in a Russian 
language scientific publication. His coll ea ue at the Institute describes how the Petitioner's 
research will help in treating In particular, the technique developed by the 
Petitioner allows light controlled remotely and is used by 
researchers looking at _________ model. The importance of the Petitioner's ongoing 
research and the application of the tools he has developed to assist other researchers in areas of major 
importance to the U.S. medical research community places him as one of the small percentage at the 
top of his field. 
C. Continue to Work in the Field 
Per section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act, the Petitioner must establish that he seeks to enter the United 
States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The Petitioner has indicated that he is 
employed at I I University as a research scientist and there is no indication in the record that he 
has any plans other than to continue to perform work in his field. As such, this requirement appears 
to be met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence and demonstrated in the final merits 
determination that he is researcher of extraordinary ability. In addition, he has shown that he will 
continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 14, 2024 In Re: 34886929 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that 
he is coming to the United States to continue work in his area of expertise as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5). We remanded the matter for the entry of a new decision. The Director again denied 
the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, he 
did not show his sustained national or international acclaim, demonstrate he is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field ofendeavor, and establish he is coming to the United States to continue work 
in his area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires that "the petition must be accompanied 
by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of 
expertise." The regulation further states that "[s]uch evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of pre-arranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." 
Id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief that does not address all the Director's grounds for denial. 
Specifically, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the original contributions of major significance 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). He further argues that the Director's final merits determination 
was in error because the totality of the evidence shows he is an individual of extraordinary ability who 
has sustained national or international acclaim and who has risen to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner's appeal does not specifically address or dispute the Director's decision regarding his 
intent to continue work in his area expertise in the United States. 1 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Accordingly, we will not address this uncontested ground on appeal, 
and we deem it to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 
28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 
2012)). See also Sarin v. United States, No. 2:22-CV-07498-SVW-JS, 2023 WL 5667531, at *8 (C.D. 
Cal. July 27, 2023) (affirming our determination that the petitioner waived the director's finding 
relating to the intent to continue to work in the area of extraordinary ability requirement when it was 
not explicitly argued or contested on appeal). 
Since the waived issue is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve 
his appellate arguments regarding his satisfaction of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and the 
1 In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner's May 2023 statement "lacked detailed plans 
establishing how you will continue your work in your profession. Statements only expressing your prospective hopes of 
finding work or offering vague ambitions do not constitute detailed plans or the type of clear evidence that demonstrates 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S)." While we do not agree with the Director's subsequent comment that "the U.S. 
position offered must be a pennanent, full-time job with an employer," the record does not contain letter(s) from 
prospective employer(s), evidence of pre-arranged commitments such as contracts, or a sufficiently detailed statement 
from the Petitioner elaborating clear plans on how he intends to continue his work in the United States to demonstrate that 
he meets the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S). Although the Petitioner's statement listed various 
U.S. research institutions where he asserted that he intended to seek a research position, the record does not include any 
corroborating, credible evidence to support his claim about obtaining a position at any of the listed institutions. 
2 
Director's final merits determination. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the 
ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23060846 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public relations (PR) director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a degree in PR from ______ University in 2014. She worked for 
various agencies as a PR specialist from 2012 to to 2015, and as a freelance PR manager from 2015 to 
201 7. In 201 7, she founde a a PR agency in Russia where she served as director. 
Since March 2019, the Petitioner has been intermittently in the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor. The Petitioner intends to establish her own new PR firm in New York. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets five of the criteria, and that she has submitted evidence comparable to receipt 
of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
As explained below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of 
the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The wording of the regulation requires the prizes or awards to be received by the individual, not by his or 
her employer. 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner documented her employers' receipt of various awards. The Petitioner asse1ied that 
individuals do not receive PR awards in Russia, and therefore her emp layers' receipt of the awards should 
be considered comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )( 4). 
2 
The chief executive officer of _________ where the Petitioner worked from 2013 to 
2015, stated that "Russian National awards in the field of PR ... are given to agencies/companies that 
implemented certain projects" and "can't be given to a specific person." The official stated that the 
Petitioner contributed significantly to the projects that won awards for I 
In denying the petition, the Director observed that the Petitioner did not personally receive the awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the claim that there are no individual PR awards in Russia, and that her 
employers' receipt of awards should therefore constitute comparable evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence when a given 
criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation. But the burden is on the Petitioner to show 
that the criterion does not readily apply. We acknowledge the Petitioner's former employer's assertions, 
but the Petitioner has not submitted statements or information from officials of the awarding entities 
themselves to establish that the entities only give awards to organizations, and not to individuals. The 
Petitioner has also not established that her former employer is in a position to speak for those 
organizations. 
Also, the Petitioner must establish that the submitted evidence is comparable to the criteria described in 
the regulation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Involvement in an award-winning 
project does not necessarily reflect the awarding entity's intention to recognize the work of an individual 
participant. The strongest evidence of that intention would generally come from the awarding entity itself, 
rather than an award recipient such as the Petitioner's former employer. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence or statements from the awarding entities to confirm that the Petitioner's contributions to the 
projects weighed significantly on the selection of the awardrecipients, such thattheawarding of the p1izes 
constituted recognition of the Petitioner's excellence in her field of endeavor. 
With regard to the selection process, we acknowled e a letter from l head of the 
Department of Public Relations in Business at University. I I indicated 
that he has served "as a Jury Member of the wards." He also statedthatthatthevarious awards 
"clearly demonstrate □ success and recognition of [the Petitioner's] outstanding PR work ... because she 
was the one who created, led, and managed the PR campaigns of the projects." But the Petitioner's 
employer did not win an award froml I Rather, the project was named as a finalist for such an 
award. I ldidnot claim to have served on juries for the other awarding entities, and therefore 
he has not established that he can directly attest to the other entities' selection processes. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of this criterion, orto establish 
that her evidence is comparable to what the regulation requires. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that she met this criterion through memberships in the Russian Public Relations 
Association (RASO) and the Global Women in PR (GWPR). On appeal, the Petitioner addresses only 
3 
her claimed RASO membership, and therefore we consider her claims regarding GWPR to be 
abandoned.1 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the vice president of RASO, stating that the Beneficiary's 
achievements qualified her for membership in the organization. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the Petitioner did not submit a copy of her 
membership certificate in RASO. The Director asked the Petitioner to submit "[t]he section of the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership." 
In response, the Petitioner submitted another letter from RASO 's vice president, who asserted: "we only 
accept individuals who have distinguished themselves as the most extraordinary PR professionals among 
their peers. We invited [the Petitioner] to join our organization because she has distinguished herself 
among her peers." The reference to an invitation to join appears to conflict with the previous letter from 
this same official, indicating that the Petitioner filed an application to join RASO. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from RASO's website, indicating that "the procedure for joining 
RASO" consists of filing an application f orm, to be considered by the executive committee. The 
submitted printout does not describe the minimum requirements for admission into membership. 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted direct documentary evidence 
of her membership in RASO or the organization's membership requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout from RASO's website. Where a petitioner has had an 
opportunity to submit required evidence prior to the denial, we will generally not consider new evidence 
submitted on appeal that the Petitioner could have submitted in response to an RFE. 2 The RFE provided 
the Petitioner an opportunity to submit further evidence material to her claim of membership in RASO, 
and identified specific documents. The Petitioner neither submitted the requested documents nor 
explained their absence. Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry 
shall be groundsfordenyingthe petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that the printouts from RASO's website would have 
materially affected the outcome of the Director's decision. The printout does not mention any 
requirement for outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. Rather, "the procedure for 
joining RASO" consists of submitting an application form, "two detailed written recommendations from 
RASO members who are familiar with [the applicant's] professional experience," and "a 2-minute video 
message ... about [the applicant's] professional experience and the goals of joining the Association." 
The submitted letters from RASO officials do not address this publicly available information from the 
organization's own website or reconcile that information with their own claims of stricter membership 
requirements. 
1 See Matter olR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US.Atty Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were a bandonedas he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 SccMatterofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 764(BIA l 988)andMatterofObaigbcna, 19 I&NDec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
4 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted several articles about a bicycle ride and contest inl Ito promote the 
anniversary of a brand of cream cheese. These articles do not mention the Petitioner, but the Petitioner 
asserts that the articles are about her work in the field because she organized the event. The regulation, 
however, requires the published materials to be about the individual. The Petitioner's work in the field 
of public relations entails getting publicity for events that she is promoting, but that publicity is about the 
events in question, rather than about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field of PR. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted printoutsofarticles about various events organized while 
she was employed by the city of I These articles are not about the Petitioner, relating to 
her work in the field of public relations. Rather, most of the articles are press releases that the Petitioner 
wrote, or which name her as a contact. One article, about a then-upcoming! !celebration, included 
a two-sentence quotation from the Petitioner describing the previous year's event. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that some of the articles do not mention the Petitioner's name, and 
therefore are not about her. Other articles were written by, rather than about, the Petitioner. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that "[ss Jome of the published materials ... do not mention the 
Beneficiary's name directly," but the Petitioner maintains that the absence of her name "does not 
necessarily mean that the material is not about the Beneficiary's work." The regulation,however, requires 
both that the published material relate to the Petitioner's work and that it be "about" her. Materials that 
do not identify the Petitioner do not fully satisfy these requirements. 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that the articles are about the Petitioner's work in the field of PR The 
Petitioner contends: "The law does not require that press articles 'cover or discuss in detail' Beneficiaty's 
contributions to her field of endeavor." The regulation requires the published materials to be "about'' the 
Petitioner; a passing mention is not sufficient. According to guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual, the 
Petitioner and her work need not be the only subject of the published material; published material that 
covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of her work in the field and mentions her in 
connection to the work may be considered material "about" the Petitioner, relating to her work. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The submitted materials do not include a substantial 
discussion of the Petitioner's PR work. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
All of the Petitioner's documented employment experience has been in Russia, with her remunerntion 
paid in rubles þÿ ( ½  ) .  A letter from indicated that the Petitioner's "monthly income constituted" 
þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017, þÿ ½  1 0 5 , 0 0 0  in 2018, and þÿ ½  1 4 2 , 0 0 0  in 2019, plus þÿ ½  2 7 0 , 0 0 0  in "bonuses for the 
implementation of customer PR campaigns." The letter did not specify the timing of the bonus payments 
or itemize the amounts of individut payments. Also, the record does not specify other duties that 1he 
Petitioner may have performed fo in addition to those of a PR specialist, which might have 
affected the level of her compensation there. 
The Petitioner submitted translations of Russian-language online materials to establish a basis for 
comparison. An article fromSostav indicates that "the average PR specialist salary" inl in June 
2018 was P45,650permonth. A page from Trud indicates that, in 2019, the average monthly salary for 
a PR manager in I was þÿ ½  6 6 , 6 0 6 .  Another chart from Trud indicated that the monthly salary in 
I lwas þÿ ½  8 5 , 8 1 6 ,  butthe date forth at figure is not clear from the translation provided. The Petitioner 
did not submit full Russian-language printouts, but rather individual graphs and tables with translations 
of the data within those materials. 
In the RFE, the Director requested "independent objective documentary evidence," such as tax returns, 
to corroborate the salary figures in the letter from I The Director also requested further evidence 
to allow a comparison between the Petitioner's earnings and those of others in the field. 
Translated invoices show payments from to to the Petitioner totaling þÿ ½ 1,320,000 between March 
2016 and April 2018. 
Invoice Date Amount Annual Total 
2 March 17, 2016 þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  
3 April 17, 2016 120,000 þÿ ½  2 0 0 , 0 0 0  
6 June 30, 2017 270,000 
7 July 31, 2017 200,000 
8 August 21, 201 7 240,000 710,000 
1 February 19, 2018 140,000 
2 March 19, 2018 90,000 
3 April 30, 2018 180,000 410,000 
Total Pl,320,000 
The developer of a mobile phone app stated that her company paid IP140,000permonth from 
March to September 2019, for a total of þÿ ½  9 8 0 , 0 0 0 ,  to promote the product. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of job announcements for PR manager, specialist, and director positions 
inl and I showingmonthlysalariesrangingfromP45,000to þÿ ½  1 2 0 , 0 0 0 .  
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted enough evidence to permit a 
comparison between the Petitioner's remunerntion and that of others in the field. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner correctly observes that the Director mistook the Petitioner's claimed monthly 
income for annual income, and that there is no specific requirement for the Petitioner to submit tax 
returns. Nevertheless, we agree with the Director's fundamental determination that the submitted 
evidence is insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements of the criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she "submitted copies of sixteen (16) monthly invoices for payments 
from her customers." We find only eight invoices in the record, along with English translations of those 
same eight documents. 
The annual totals on the submitted invoices, described above, are considerably lower than the annual 
amounts extrapolated from learlierletter: þÿ ½  9 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017 and þÿ ½  1 , 2 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2018. The 
incomplete sequences of numbers indicate that some invoices were not submitted. The burden of pmof 
is on the Petitioner to fully document her remuneration and account for the difference between the 
amounts on the receipts and those inl I letter. 
The submitted copies of job announcements show monthly salaries, which are oflimited value when the 
record shows that the Petitioner does not receive a monthly salary. The Petitioner describes the in voices 
as "monthly," but this description implies regularly scheduled payments. The invoices show varying 
payments at irregular intervals on a per-project basis, with the Petitioner identified as the "Contractor" 
andl las the "Customer." The number 1 on the February 2018 invoice suggests thatl did 
not pay the Petitioner in January 2018. 
The Petitioner asserts that the mobile app developer discussed above paid the Petitioner þÿ ½  9 8 0 ,,000 in "total 
annual remunerntion for her PR services." The record does not document the payments. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that these payments were made directly to the Petitioner herself, as her own 
remuneration, insteadoff ees paid to which would have covered a number of expenses in addition 
to the Petitioner's own remuneration. 
There is no specific requirement that the Petitioner submit her income tax returns, but the fragmentary 
materials that the Petitioner submitted do not establish her total annual compensation for comparison 
against the submitted salary figures. The invoices show that the Petitioner receives varying rates of pay 
on a project-by-project basis, but the Petitioner has not provided data for others in the PR field who 
likewise are paid by project rather than a regular monthly salary. 
The submitted documentation provides an incomplete and inconsistent picture of the Petitioner's 
remuneration, and the comparative figures relate to fixed salaries rather than variable per-project 
compensation. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof 
to meet the requirements of the criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria, pertaining 
to original contributions of major significance and leading or critical roles for organizations or 
7 
establishments with a distinguished reputation, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, 
we reserve those issues. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has engaged in successful 
projects for some high-profile clients, but it does not show that this success has translated into 
individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international 
acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act.4 Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to theverytop of the field of endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
4 We note that, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted four job offer letters, all dated within days of each other 
in late September 2020. Three were from local businesses inl I a window-cleaning service, a skin care 
center, and a jewelry manufacturer. A fourth letter does not identify the company or provide any details a bout the nature 
of its business activity. The Petitioner has not established that offers of this kind are of a caliber indicative of sustained 
nationalorintemationalacclaimorhavingreached the very top of the field. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 In Re: 28562616 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television and film producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
In addition, the Director entered a separate finding that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented 
material facts in support of his petition. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) - (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is a television and film producer. The record reflects that he was in the 
United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status at the time of filing. 1 Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner 
claimed to meet four of these criteria, relating to awards, published material about him, display of his 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and leading or critical roles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), (vii) and (viii). 2 
The Director found in her decision that the Petitioner did not meet any of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).3 She further entered a finding that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts related to his achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner contests the 
Director's finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact and requests review of the previously 
1 We acknowledge that the 0-1 classification is intended for nonimmigrants with extraordinary ability or achievement. 
Nevertheless, the record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding . Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant 
categories have different criteria, definitions , and standards for persons working in the motion picture and television 
industry. "Extraordinary achievement " in reference to persons in the motion picture and television industry in the 
nonimmigrant 0-1 category means a very high level of accomplishment in that industry evidenced by a degree of skill and 
recognition significantly above that ordinarily encountered to the extent that the person is recognized as outstanding , 
notable, or leading in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects 
that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 We note that the Petitioner initially claimed to meet the criterion relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) , but 
he did not maintain that he meets this criterion within his responses to the Director's two notices of intent to deny (NOID) 
or on appeal. 
3 The Director indicated in her second NOID that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) , 
relating to published material, but did not mention this criterion in her decision. 
2 
submitted documentation submitted m support of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 e.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), and (viii). 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director did not provide the Petitioner sufficient 
information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for denial, or give sufficient 
consideration to the Petitioner's NOID responses, and as a result did not adequately support her finding 
of willful misrepresentation. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Accordingly, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further consideration and entry of a 
new decision. 
Prior to the denial, the Director issued two NOIDs in which she observed that "it appears that the 
Beneficiary misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role, and published material, which is 
material to whether the beneficiary is eligible for the requested benefit." The Director's NOrDs stated 
as follows: 
The Beneficiary claimed various productions was queried for verification purposes. 
users did not find any evidence to support the beneficiary's claim. The majority of 
evidence submitted made no mention of the beneficiary. After extensive research, 
users did not find any evidence to support the required criteria for this benefit. By 
claiming false claims, the beneficiary willfully made a false representation, and it is 
material to whether[] he is eligible for the requested benefit. users intends to enter a 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the beneficiary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had "willfully made a false representation" by claiming 
"various productions." The Director did not specifically identify the productions queried in attempting 
to verify the Petitioner's claimed expertise, critical role, and published material and, therefore, did not 
provide the Petitioner sufficient information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for 
denial. 
Regarding the first NOTD, the Petitioner, through counsel, responded to the Director's assertions and 
submitted additional evidence intended to rebut the Director's intent to enter a finding of willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. Specifically, he asserted that he did not make any false claims in 
his petition. He requested review ofthe previously submitted documentation in support ofthe claimed 
awards, published materials, display, and leading or critical role criteria, and stated that "[ a ]11 the 
evidence provided and all information explained in the supporting documentation is real work that has 
been performed by the Applicant." His response included an additional letter from L-A-, who 
reaffirmed the Petitioner's work atl INetworks Latin America onl I 
I l and two additional published articles regarding the screening of his short films I II k 1997) and I 1(2006) at ft Im festivals. 
In addition, the Petitioner emphasized users' "lack of specificity in this NOrD" in not "specifying 
the basis for the proposed denial sufficient to give the Applicant adequate notice and sufficient 
3 
information to respond, as required by 8 CFR § 103.2(b)(8)(iv)." The Petitioner also noted that for 
the published materials, display, and leading or critical role criteria, the Director provided a summary 
of the requirements for each criterion then stated, without analysis, that "the submitted evidence does 
not meet this criterion." 
As noted, the Director's second NOID again observed that "it appears that the Beneficiary 
misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role and published material,"4 based upon his "claimed 
various productions" which the Director "queried for verification purposes." In response, the 
Petitioner again highlighted several previously submitted recommendation letters discussing his role 
on productions as evidence "that he did not misrepresent his talent in the film/television industry." 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not successfully rebutted her 
initial finding that he had misrepresented a material fact in his "claim to be an acclaimed producer," 
while repeating that it "appears" he "misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role, and published 
material." Here, the denial decision did not address the Petitioner's arguments made in his NOID 
responses, including to consider other evidence in the record such as awards certificates, paystubs, 
letters of recommendation from television and film production companies, and published articles. 
Although she acknowledged the Petitioner's submission ofdocumentation, the Director did not explain 
why the evidence did not overcome her findings in the NOIDs. 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Director's final decision did not provide the Petitioner 
sufficient information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for denial, or adequately 
consider the Petitioner's response to the NO IDs, and as a result, did not sufficiently explain the reasons 
for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). The Director's decision is withdrawn and the 
matter will be remanded for further consideration, which may include issuance of a new notice of 
intent to deny if the new decision will include a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
We further observe that the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). With respect 
to the awards criterion, the Director's analysis was based in part on a determination that the Petitioner 
submitted documentation that she believed to be inconsistent, without identifying specific, unresolved 
inconsistencies in the record. 
Moreover, in evaluating the display and leading or critical role criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
and (viii), the Director's analysis was based, in large part, on a blanket determination that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence, including letters of recommendation, that "was specifically created/manufactured 
to fraudulently qualify the beneficiary for this immigrant petition." The Director did not specifically 
identify the fraudulent documentation. In addition, the Director did not indicate that USCIS had 
attempted to verify the authenticity of any of the submitted letters by contacting the authors or had 
otherwise confirmed that they were fabricated. Further, as noted, the Director did not consider other 
evidence in the record. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should reevaluate all the documentation the Petitioner 
4 As the Petitioner notes on appeal, this statement is inconsistent with the Director's statement elsewhere in the second 
NOID that he met the published material criterion. 
4 
initially submitted in support of individual evidentiary criteria, along with his NOTD responses and 
arguments on appeal. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 In Re: 27693286 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that her entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. We will also enter a finding ofwillful misrepresentation ofmaterial facts. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of the individual's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen ofBangladesh, claims to have been a published writer since 1997, 
writing four volumes of poetry, a book of short stories, and a novel. Her poems have also appeared in 
various newspapers, and in 2016 she began working as a script writer for Voice of Bangladesh. The 
Petitioner entered the United States in November 2020 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
A. Willful Misrepresentation ofMaterial Facts 
Before we discuss the merits of the appeal and the underlying petition, we begin with a finding that the 
Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in this proceeding. 
Misrepresentation ofa material fact may lead to multiple consequences in immigration proceedings. Any 
noncitizen who, by fraud or willfully misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to 
procure or has procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other benefit 
provided under the Act is inadmissible. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 182(a)(6)(C)(i). 
Under Board of Immigration Appeals precedent, a material misrepresentation is one which "tends to shut 
off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility and which might well have resulted in a 
proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofS-and B-C-, 9 I&N Dec. 436,447 (BIA 1961). 
A willful misrepresentation requires that the individual knowingly make a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. 
Sergueeva v. Holder, 324 Fed. Appx. 76 (2d Cir. 2009) (citing Matter ofKai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 
288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). Material misrepresentation requires only a false statement that is material and 
willfully made. See 9 FAM 40.63 N2; see also Matter of Tijam, 22 I&N Dec. 408, 424 (BIA 1998) 
(en bane) (Rosenberg, concurring). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as 
distinguished from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See 
Matter ofHealy and Goodchild, l 7 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). 
The Petitioner submitted printouts of several articles purporting to be from various online newspapers. 
Efforts to verify the Petitioner's evidence, by following the web links printed on the submitted articles, 
showed that at least three of these articles were falsified, with the Petitioner's name, photograph, and 
other information inserted into existing articles that were actually about other people. 
2 
The earliest claimed article, attributed to Ju an tor onl I 2019, includes photographs of eight 
individuals, with the Petitioner.__r-------.--~ The text of the submitted article lists the names of 30 
people, with the Petitioner's name in the list. The web address on the printout actually leads to an 
article froml l2022, showing seven of the same eight photoraph,, with another person's 
photograph in place of the Petitioner's. A different person's name is the listed. The Petitioner's 
name does not appear. 
The second claimed article, said to have appeared on the Bengali website! I 
D2019, also includes photographs of eight individuals, with the Petitioner's imagel I II 
In the submitted p1intout, the Petitioner's is thQof eight listed names. The atiicle at the 
web address provided shows seven ofthe same photographs, with a different individual shown instead of 
the Petitioner, and theOlisted name is not the Petitioner's name. The Petitioner's name is not listed 
at all on this version. 
The third claimed article, attributed to~nd datedl I2019, pmpmis to be solely about 
the Petitioner's claimed receipt of thel___J Award. The authentic article at the link provided, 
however, is datedl 12022, and names a different author as the winner ofthe I !Award. 
The info1mation summarized above indicates that the Petitioner, or someone acting on her behalf: altered 
authentic articles from 2022 by inserting her name and photograph, and backdated those articles to 2019. 
Because the genuine online newspaper articles originated outside the record of proceeding, we issued a 
notice of intent to dismiss (NOID) on August 15, 2023, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). We 
advised the Petitioner that, if she were unable to rebut and overcome this derogatory information, we 
would dismiss the appeal with a finding that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts. 
In response, the Petitioner states: 
All the news articles I intended to provide were from 2019. At that time,!.______ ___. 
.____________ ~were focused on printed versions and their online portals 
were not properly updated. After the Covid-19 pandemic, all ofthese newspapers started 
updating their online portals. Due to upgradation oftheir portals and server, many articles 
could not be updated and some were mistakenly deleted. As a result, many links to these 
portals were faulty and they did not work. Instead, these links redirected to other news 
articles.... 
We have provided the proper article's links ... and also collected signed statements from 
the Editors ofthose newspapers that there [sic] articles were authentically published. 
The Petitioner claims that the links she provided "redirected to other news articles," but we have shown 
that the authentic articles are largely similar to the printouts the Petitioner submitted, except that they do 
not include her name or image. The names and photographs ofthe other people in those articles appear 
in the same order as in the printouts that the Petitioner submitted. 
3 
Critically, the Petitioner submits no evidence to corroborate her claim that the articles were accidentally 
deleted from the websites of.___________________ ~during portal or server 
upgrades. Instead, she claims that exactly the same articles also appeared on three other websites. The 
Petitioner submits letters attributed to the editors ofl I and 
.__________ _, attesting that their respective websites carried the articles described above. The 
letters contain web addresses that lead to articles that match the printouts that the Petitioner had previously 
submitted. 
The three u orted editors do not claim or document an affiliation between I 
'-----r----------.---------------~rbetween"'" I=_.________ ....., 
and._________ _, and they do not claim that they took their articles from the other named 
publications. The letters do not explain why the newly linked articles are identical to the printouts that 
the Petitioner had previously submitted, attributed to three different publications. 
It is the petitioner's responsibility and burden to resolve any inconsistencies in the record with 
independent objective evidence, and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies will not suffice 
without competent objective evidence pointing to where the trnth, in fact, lies. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner's response to the NOID does not meet this standard. 
Without credibly corroborated explanations, the appearance of identical articles on different websites 
raises questions about the trne origin ofthe articles. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish 
that the newly submitted links were operational at the time of their claimed publication in 2019, or that 
the articles at those links existed on any website in 2019. 1 We note that the Petitioner had previously 
submitted other printouts from.__ _________________ ___. published in 2020, 
but she did not claim at that time that either ofthose publications had published the newly-claimed articles 
about her in 2019. 
The Petitioner has not established that the printouts she previously submitted are authentic articles 
published by.__ ________________ ~in 2019. The Petitioner had specifically 
submitted the printouts as evidence in supp01i ofmaterial claims. Her attempts to explain the derogat01y 
evidence raise more questions. We conclude, therefore, that those originally submitted printouts were 
falsified in order to support the petition. The active substitution of the Petitioner's name and image in 
place of the names and images of other people shows that the falsification was willful rather than 
inadvertent. 
The information in the falsified articles is material to the petition because it relates to eligibility criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ix), pertaining, respectively, to prizes and high remuneration. 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in seeking to 
procure a benefit under the Act. 
1 The newly claimed I !article at httosl hs datedl 12019. 
The next consecutively numbered web address, httpsJ I, shows the same photograph of 
the Petitioner, the Petitioner's first name, and a publication date otl I2023 about three weeks after 
we issued the NOID, and four days before the date of the letter attributed to the publisher oti I 
4 
A petition can only be properly approved upon a determination that the facts stated in the petition are true. 
See section 204(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 154(b ). Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may 
undermine the reliability and sufficiency ofthe remaining evidence offered in support ofthe visa petition. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. Therefore, we may view other record evidence through the lens of 
the Petitioner's diminished credibility. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets all the claimed criteria. We will discuss these claimed criteria below. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted letters and copies of certificates relating to three claimed awards: 
• A Certificate of Excellence from Voice of Bangladesh for writing the scripts for the~I--~ 
'------,-----,_,Movement and Book Publication Campaign"; 
• The Award "for Overall Contribution to Bengali Poetry" at the 20191.______ ____. 
described as an annual Bengali poetry festival; and 
• The'--____ _.Award from the Bengali Cultural Forum in 2019. 
A letter attributed to the president of the Bengali Culture and Culture Forum [sic] states: "This award is 
a recognition of [the Petitioner's] commitment, talent and continued effort for Bengali Literature." A 
letter attributed to the chairperson of the 2019 I I calls the Petitioner "a very big 
name in the poetry scene in Bangladesh." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had "not provided sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that each award ... is nationally or internationally recognized." The Director 
requested further information about the awards and their recognition. 
In response, the Petitioner claimed that the awards attracted media attention. She submitted printouts of 
articles purportedly published in 2019 by.__ _______________ ____. As discussed 
above, based on the evidence of record, we have concluded that these articles are altered versions of 
articles about other people. Therefore, we do not give these articles any evidentiary weight. 
5 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to show that the claimed 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner must establish the recognition of the 
awards she received. Information about the awarding entities, or the events where she received the 
awards, do not suffice in this regard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner describes previously submitted evidence, including "letters from award[ing] 
organizations confoming the awards' selection criteria and their national scope and reputation." Letters 
from the awarding entities alone are not direct evidence ofrecognition ofthe awards beyond those entities. 
The only submitted evidence ofwider recognition of the awards is in the form of claimed online articles 
which, for reasons discussed above, have no credibility or weight in this proceeding. 
The falsified articles also raise doubts about the authenticity of the letters and certificates attesting to the 
Petitioner's receipt of the claimed awards. See Mattr of Ho, i19 I&N Dec. at 591. The certificate 
purporting to show the Petitioner's receipt of the 2019 Award is dated 2009. The low image 
resolution of submitted photographs relating to the Petitioner's claimed awards makes it difficult to draw 
fom conclusions about their authenticity. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner submitted materials attesting to her membership in the I !Academy, the~ 
Literature Club (USA), and the I Icenter for Public Service and the Arts L_J ~ The Petitioner did npi...sll.bl;nit any information about the membership requirements for the 
L___J Literature Club or the[___JCenter. 
A letter attributed to a fellow of the I !Academy lists "certain rules to be a member of._l_ ____. 
Academy." According to this letter, members must be citizens of Bangladesh "over 30 years old," who 
have "published books" and are "endorsed by a I !Academy fellow." The Petitioner has not 
established that any of these requirements amount to outstanding achievements. A separate letter, 
attributed to the general director of thel !Academy, does not discuss membership requirements but 
specifies that the Petitioner "has been a member of thel !Academy since 1996." The Petitioner 
turned 22 years old in late 1996. Therefore, this letter contradicts the claim that members "have to be 
over 30 years old." The Petitioner has not established the membership requirements of the I 
Academy at the time she joined in 1996. 
The Petitioner also submitted a photocopy ofher press pass from I Th1 Petitioner did 
not establish that I lis an association in the field. The pass identifies I _ as an "Online 
Newspaper & News Agency," and states the Petitioner's title as "Sub Editor." This indicates that the 
Petitioner was an employee of a news organization, rather than a member in an association. 
6 I 
In Tsponsl to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted information about thel !Academy and 
the Center, but this information does nol specify the membership requirements for either 
organization. A letter attributed to the director ofthe Center includes this passage: "[The Petitioner] 
hal great1y contributed in [sic] the cultural sector of Bangladesh. Hence, she was accepted as a member 
of Center." This letter does not establish that such contributions were a requirement to become a 
member. The Petitioner submitted screen captures from theD Center's website, but these images do 
not show membership requirements. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE also included this statement: "Bangladesh Television Playwright 
Association (BTPA): [The Petitioner] has been a member of BTPA since 2010. Membership in BTPA 
requires that a person must first establish herself in the country's culture and literature. Exhibit E." 
Exhibit E includes a letter attributed to the president of the BTPA. But the letter does not say that the 
Beneficiary is a member of the BTPA. Rather, the author of the letter described the purported 
membership requirements in "the cultural and literature organization named j I" 
(GSA). The individual stated: "To be a member ofl Ione has to be an established 
personnel [sic] in cultural or literature sector of Bangladesh. He/she has to be recommended by 3 
renowned persons of this sector. After this initial process, we hold a 6 month evaluation period." The 
letter indicates that the Petitioner "completed these steps and became a member of our organization in 
2010." 
The author of the letter does not claim to be an official ofthe GSA, and the record does not contain first­
hand documentation, such as the GSA's bylaws, to confirm the membership requirements or define the 
term "established person." Therefore, the letter does not suffice to establish that the GSA requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. The record does not establish what connection, if any, exists 
between the newly-claimed GSA and the I !Literature Club (USA) named in the initial filing of 
the petition. 
The Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that any of the Petitioner's claimed 
memberships require outstanding achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner describes past submissions, 
but the exhibits described on appeal do not meet the regulatory requirements. For example, the Petitioner 
describes thel I Academy as "an autonomous institution funded by the government to foster Bengali 
language, literature, and culture." The Petitioner does not explain how these facts establish that her 
membership in thel !Academy meets the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in thefieldfor which classffication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted copies of 13 articles from newspapers in Bangladesh, either printouts 
from websites or ]:hotocopies of print articles. Two aiiicles are reviews of her writings. Three a1iicles 
cover al 2020 event in the Petitioner's honor, hosted by a New York publisher. The rest are all 
interviews or biographical profiles of the Petitioner, containing general information about her 
background, her career, and her beliefs. 
7 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted copies ofthree articles from._________ ____, All 
these articles were published in 2022, more than a year after the Petitioner filed the petition in March 
2021. These materials cannot establish that the Petitioner met all eligibility requirements at the time of 
filing the petition as required at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner also submitted some of her own 
published poems, which are published materials by her, rather than about her as the regulation requires. 
The Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that the articles appeared in qualifying 
major media. But the Petitioner submitted circulation data attributed to the Information Minist1 of 
Bangladesh, indicating that thatl are 
"top national dailies in Bangladesh." 
Although the Petitioner has established that some of the articles appeared in major media, the published 
materials are deficient for other reasons. 
Most of the articles are in Bengali, with English translations. Foreign-language documents must include 
a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and the 
translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3 ). The submitted translations do not include the required ce1tifications. 
None ofthe aiticles has an author credit as required by the regulation. The anonymity of the authors is 
particularly significant given the proximity oftheir publication -all the initially claimed articles appeared 
between~------~2020, shortly before the Petitioner filed the petition in March 2021 -and 
the broad similarity of several articles to one another. The English translations of aiticles from I II lboth published the same day, are identical to one another. Both 
of those translations have the same basic structure as an English-language article with the same title, 
published da s earlier in As discussed above, other articles from I I 
and were published under questionable circumstances. Likewise, the translations 
of three articles from,______, 2020 -published inI I-include some identical passages. 2 .___________________ __. 
The published materials submitted by the Petitioner do not meet all the regulatory requirements. Apart 
from deficiencies such as anonymous authorship, some ofthe claimed articles have been falsified as set 
fo1th above, and others are highly questionable due to circumstances such as identical wording. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
2 The shared language is consistent with a common source, particularly a passage that uses a first-person pronoun: "[the] 
President of Muktodhara ... told us 'New York Bengalis accepted her with [sic] full ofjoy" ( emphasis added). Even if 
the articles truly appeared in the named newspapers, the unexplained use of this identical language in what purport to be 
three independently published newspaper articles would raise questions about the circumstances of their publication. In 
this case, given the submission of other falsified newspaper articles and the Petitioner's unsatisfactory explanations for 
other anomalies relating to published material, the three anonymous I 12020 articles have diminished credibility. 
8 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion because she "has contributed to Bengali literature through 
her six books" which "have been well received. . . . [S]he has also published poems and short stories in 
national-level newspapers." The Petitioner submitted copies of published poems and photographs of 
book jackets. 
Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases involves public showings. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Petitioner has not established that there 
have been public showings ofher work, as distinct from print publication ofthat work. The record does 
not show that the newspapers reproduced in the record are artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Petitioner submitted photographs ofherself at various gatherings, but she did not establish that any 
ofthese gatherings were showcases or exhibitions ofher litera1y work. 
In the RFE, the Director identified evidence that the Petitioner could provide to satisfy the criterion. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address or mention the display criterion. Therefore, the Director 
concluded the Petitioner had not met the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that her work has been published, but the Petitioner does 
not explain how print publication amounts to display at an artistic showcase or exhibition. Without that 
information, she has not met her burden of proof to show that her evidence meets evidentiary 
requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements ofthis criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of publishing agreements and letters from publishers. Many of these 
documents do not specify amounts paid to the Petitioner or provide the necessary basis of comparison 
between the Petitioner's remuneration and that of others in the field. Some contracts specify percentage­
based royalty rates, with no indication as to whether the Petitioner's rates were higher than others in the 
field. A 1999 contract with.__ _____ ____. specified weekly payments of20,000 Bangladeshi Taka 
(BDT) relating to one ofthe Petitioner's books. Five years later, a 2004 contract with I I 
specified quarterly payments of 100,000 BDT for another book. Those contracts also cited percentage 
royalty rates. The contracts do not appear to specify whether the fixed amounts are applied against, or 
added to, the percentage figures. 
The publisher of the newspape~ lstated that the Petitioner "is one of the top paid contributor[ s] 
of our paper." This vague assertion is not sufficient to satisfy the criterion. The requirement is a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. The Petitioner did not 
establish that the range ofremuneration paid to I !contributors is representative ofthe field. In the 
absence of such information, being among the highest-paid writers at one newspaper is too narrow to 
satisfy the criterion. By the same reasoning, another letter calling the Petitioner "one of the top paid 
writer[ s ]" atl Idoes not permit the required field-wide comparison. 
9 
Documents show that Voice of Bangladesh hired the Beneficiary "on [a] contract basis for the position 
of a Script Writer," with a starting monthly salary of 20,000 BDT in 2016. An invoice from mid-2020 
shows that the amount had risen to 50,000 BDT per month. The Petitioner did not provide any basis for 
comparison to give context to these figures. 
Undated vouchers froml Ishow three payments of30,000 BDT each. One voucher indicated 
that the Petitioner consulted on "manual development on popular theatre"; the second voucher referred 
to "training facilitation for popular theatre training"; and the third stated that the Petitioner received a 
"consultancy fee for children's book writing." Once again, there is no basis for comparison with others 
in the field. Also, without more details, the vouchers do not show that the Petitioner was paid for working 
as a writer or poet, for other services, or some combination thereof. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner "did not provide sufficient financial documentation 
(e.g., payroll records or income tax forms) demonstrating [her] actual earnings for any given period of 
time." The Director requested reliable documentation of the Petitioner's earnings in her field and 
evidence to show how her earnings compare to others in her field. 
The Director also stated that the Petitioner "provided evidence for Bangladesh," and needed to show that 
her remuneration was high "in relation to others in the field, in the United States." We agree with the 
Petitioner that she need not compare her past remuneration to writers in the United States, because she 
earned that remuneration in Bangladesh. Nevertheless, the burden remains on the Petitioner to establish 
the actual amount of her remuneration and provide a reliable basis for comparison to show that her 
remuneration is high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner's response did not include any objective documentation of her earnings. She submitted a 
printout of a purported I !article, calling the Petitioner '1 !Academy's best-selling author." 
As discussed earlier in this decision, we have concluded based on the evidence that this article is not 
authentic. The provided web address links to a different article from three years later. 
The Petitioner submitted letters attributed to four different publishers in Bangladesh. Three of the letters 
called the Petitioner the highest paid writer in Bangladesh; the fourth states that she is "one of the most 
bestseller [sic] writers ofBangladesh." The letters are not supported by documentary evidence. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not fully documented her earnings or 
provided an objective basis for comparison with other writers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her "earnings through works of literature are shown by the 
documents" submitted previously. As shown above, the Petitioner has provided only fragmentary 
documentation ofher earnings, and she has not submitted any objective basis to show that those earnings 
are high in relation to others in the field. Letters calling her the highest-paid writer in Bangladesh have 
limited evidentiary value in the absence of other independent objective evidence. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements ofthis criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion, 
concerning participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 For the same reason, we also 
reserve the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work at a level that 
shows sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner claims to be among the best-selling 
authors in Bangladesh, but her evidence is fragmentary and lacking in credibility, particularly given 
her submission of altered or falsified articles. The genuine, verifiable articles about the Petitioner all 
appeared within a short window of time coinciding with the Petitioner's travel to the United States 
and do not reflect the decades of acclaim that the Petitioner claims to have earned. Book sales are a 
matter ofmeasurable, objective fact, and therefore documentary evidence ought to exist to support the 
claim that her books are bestsellers, but the Petitioner has not submitted such evidence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. We also find that the Petitioner has willfully misrepresented material 
facts relating to claimed news articles from 2019, as discussed above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 InRe: 28881711 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a restaurant business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an executive chef, as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
satisfying at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a chef who completed his culinary training in the United Kingdom and has over 14 
years of progressive professional experience in his field. The Petitioner, which operates an upscale 
restaurant in southern California, has employed him as its executive chef since 2019. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim the Beneficiary qualifies for extraordinary ability classification based 
on a one-time achievement; therefore, it must submit evidence demonstrating that he meets at least 
three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that the Beneficiary has performed in leading or 
critical roles for establishments that have a distinguished reputation and therefore satisfies the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports this conclusion based on evidence related to the 
Beneficiary's leading or critical roles with the Petitioner and a prior U.S. employer, a Los Angeles­
based restaurant that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the previously submitted evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary 
meets two additional criteria and that the Director erred in determining he is not eligible for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 Specifically, the Petitioner maintains that it 
met its burden to establish that the Beneficiary has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases and that he has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (ix). 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary could meet up to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), 
including the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence, and at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary meets either of these criteria and the 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings or otherwise address these criteria on appeal. An issue not raised on 
appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter o(O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
At the time of filing in September 2021, the Petitioner provided evidence that the Beneficiary was 
earning an annual salary of $85,000 for his services as an executive chef. Evidence relevant to 
demonstrating that a given salary is a "high salary" may include comparative wage or remuneration 
data for the person's field, such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See 
generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing 
guidance on evaluating initial evidence ofextraordinary ability under the regulatory criteria at 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)). 
In support of its claim that the Beneficiary commands a high salary in relation to others, the Petitioner 
submitted the Bureau of Labor Statistics' (BLS) Occupational Outlook Handbook entry for "Chefs 
and Head Cooks," which states that the median annual wage for the occupation in the United States 
was $53,380 in May 2020, with the 10 percent of workers in the field earning more than $90,790. The 
submitted excerpt states that "pay is usually highest in upscale restaurants and hotels, where many 
executive chefs work, as well as in major metropolitan and resort areas." The Petitioner also submitted 
BLS Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics data which indicated a mean annual wage of 
$59,190 for chefs and head cooks in thel !metropolitan area. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the BLS data alone was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has commanded a "high salary" as required by the plain 
language of the regulation. We agree as the submitted data included only an average salary for the 
city where the Beneficiary works and therefore cannot sufficiently support a claim that his salary is 
high, as opposed to "above average," in relation to similarly employed workers in the same geographic 
area. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included additional evidence of the Beneficiary's earnings for 
the years 2022 and 2023, including evidence that he earned a salary of $95,000 as of early 2023. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously excluded this evidence. However, as noted 
by the Director, the Petitioner's evidence must establish the Beneficiary met this criterion at the time 
it filed this petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A visa petition may not be approved when a 
beneficiary, initially ineligible at the time of filing, becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Therefore, our analysis of this 
criterion is based on evidence of the Beneficiary's annual salary as of September 2021. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion; however, the decision does not 
fully address the evidence submitted in response to the RFE, which included additional salary data 
published by Glassdoor, Indeed and ZipRecruiter. The data from Glassdoor indicates an average salary 
of $52,752 for the position of "head chef' in the United States, with the highest earners receiving up 
to $78,000; however, it does not provide salary data for the metropolitan area where the Beneficiary 
works. Further, Glassdoor lists "executive chef' as a "related career" with a higher average salary of 
$65,491. Given that the Beneficiary is employed as an executive chef and performs higher level duties 
than those attributed to "head chefs," we cannot conclude that the head chef data provides an 
appropriate basis for comparison. 
3 
The information the Petitioner submitted from Indeed indicates that the average base salary for a head 
chef in the United States is $58,778 and it identifies a "high" salary of $83,048. However, it also 
identifies I lamong the highest paying cities for this occupation, with an average annual 
salary of $76,159. While the Beneficiary's salary of $85,000 is above this average salary for a similar 
but distinct occupation, there is insufficient data to support a determination that he earns a high salary 
in relation to others working as executive chefs in [ I Finally, the information from 
ZipRecruiter is insufficient for similar reasons, as it is limited to national data for the occupation of 
"head chef'' and is therefore not a position-appropriate or geographically specific compensation 
survey. The Petitioner did not submit salary data for "executive chefs" from either of these sources or 
indicate that such information was not available. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided California wages for chefs and head cooks from the U.S. Department 
ofLabor's (DOL) O*Net Online website. This occupation includes executive chefs, but also positions 
such as chefs de cuisine, sous chefs, and private chefs. This DOL source indicates that the top 10 
percent of workers in the I !metropolitan area earn a salary of $103,930 or higher. While 
the Beneficiary's $85,000 annual salary is higher than the reported average, the evidence does not 
support a determination that it is a "high salary" in relation to similarly employed executive chefs in 
the same geographic area. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), but did not establish that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), as claimed. As such, 
the Petitioner has not met its burden to establish that he meets the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification. Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this criterion. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approvals 
We acknowledge that the Beneficiary is employed by the Petitioner in 0-1 B status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants ofextraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has approved at least 
two 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approvals do not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, 
definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" 
in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant 
context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field. Moreover, each petition is separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its 
own merits, under the corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary has 
a qualifying one-time achievement or that he meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary has the sustained acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for a highly restnct1ve visa 
classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2024 In Re: 34186177 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's degree in physical education in Brazil in 2014. The Petitioner has 
spent most of his time since September 2018 in the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, 
although his resume does not identify any U.S. institution where he has studied. The Petitioner's resume 
indicates that he taught martial arts in Brazil from January 2017 to August 2018, and has worked two jobs 
since entering the United States: as a massage therapist since June 2019 and as a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu 
instructor since December 2019. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that he meets any of the claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three 
criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner submitted a photograph ofhis black belt certification from the United States Federation of 
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu (USFBJJ), dated 2011. The Petitioner provided biographical information about the 
USFBJJ' s founder, copied from a web printout in the record, but did not provide any information about 
the requirements to join the USFBJJ. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not established that membership in the 
USFBJJ "requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition of their members for admission as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the previously submitted information about the USFBJJ's founder. 
Details about the life and career history of the organization's founder do not establish that the USFBJJ is 
an association in the field, or that it requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner has not overcome or directly addressed the Director's stated grounds for concluding that 
the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of the criterion. 
Also on appeal, the Petitioner also makes a new claim of membership in the International Brazilian Jiu 
Jitsu Federation (IBJJF), stating: "On June 23, 2024, [he] received the IBJJF Certificate ofAchievement 
for being approved in a[n] IBJJF Rules Webinar." The Petitioner does not establish the IBJJF' s 
membership requirements. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown that this membership satisfies the 
regulatory requirements. 
The date of the newly claimed certificate raises another issue. The Petitioner filed the petition in July 
2023. The June 2024 certificate dates from nearly a year after the filing date, and more than a month after 
the Director denied the petition on May 13, 2024. The Petitioner must establish that he met all eligibility 
requirements as of the filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). See also Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 
45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971) (holding that a petition cannot properly be approved based on qualifications 
that a beneficiary did not yet hold at the time of filing). The Petitioner does not explain how this new 
certificate establishes that he was eligible for the classification sought in July 2023. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements ofthe criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has claimed to satisfy only three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and has 
not satisfied the requirements of one of those claimed criteria, he cannot satisfy the minimum of three 
of those criteria. Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria, relating to published materials and 
leading or critical roles, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve discussion 
on these two criteria. 1 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted letters indicating that he has been involved 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
with well-known teams and has trained successful athletes. Most of the documentation in the record 
concerns individuals and organizations with which the Petitioner has been associated in various ways. 
These materials do not directly relate to the Petitioner and do not satisfy the statutory requirement for 
"extensive documentation" ofrecognition of the Petitioner's achievements. See section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. 
The Petitioner has not documented recognition rising to the level of sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrating a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22143529 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a specialist in aerospace technology and !modelling , seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four of the 
evidentiary criteria in addition to the two that the Director concluded she met. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a specialist in aerospace technology and the application of _______ 
the modelling of air transportation demand and other issues in the aviation sector. She earned a 
Diploma of Candidate of Sciences in technical sciences, e uivalent to a doctorate degree in the United 
States, from the in 2015, and is currently 
employed as a senior operational analyst by __ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as 
a judge of the work of others in her field, and we agree with this determination. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the following evidentiary criteria: 1 
• (ii) -membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (v)-original contributions of major significance in the field 
• (viii) - a leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation 
• (ix) - a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field 
In support of her claim to these criteria, the Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal. Where, as 
here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an 
opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision regarding her previous claim to the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) relating to published material about her and her work in the field in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. We will therefore consider that claim to be abandoned. 
2 
on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Therefore, our review of her claims below will only consider evidence in the record 
before the Director. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her membership in four professional associations. 
We initially note that the evidence regarding one of these, the National Air Transportation Association, 
indicates that the Petitioner's business, not the Petitioner, is a member. As for the remaining three 
associations, she submitted evidence confirming her membership, but provides the same response on 
appeal as was included in her response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). Notably, 
regarding the one association for which she submitted evidence of membership requirements, the 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, the Petitioner does not explain why attainment of 
a bachelor's degree in science or engineering, or equivalent professional experience, would be 
considered to be outstanding in a field where such qualifications represent the minimum requirement 
for employment. We therefore agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner identifies a paper she published in the journal Aviation in 2007, ___ 
________________________________ as an original 
contribution of major significance. She asserts, without referencing supporting evidence, that this 
paper is the "oldest" one on forecastin aviation transport demand usingl l However, 
reference letters from and I I state that she was among the first to 
use ___________ in this way. While we do not doubt the originality of this work, 
the evidence does not support the Petitioner's statement and is insufficient to show that it constituted 
an innovation which rose to the level of major significance. 
Related to this claim, the Petitioner also asserts that a particular keyword search in Google Scholar 
shows that her 2007 paper in Aviation "is one of the most cited papers on aviation demand forecasting 
of all time." We first note that the Petitioner did not submit documentation of the results of such a 
search. In addition, she did not show that these results would support her claim, especially considering 
that several of the expert letters submitted on her behalf reference older forecasting models that had 
been in existence for decades. 
3 
More importantly, the Petitioner does not indicate how the results of this search would show that her 
research was widely adopted or built upon by others in the field. While the number of citations to her 
2007 paper shows that there was some level of interest in her work, the record lacks sufficient context 
to show that that interest showed her work to be of major significance. The USCIS Policy Manual 
provides that "a goodly number" of citations "may be probative of the significance of the person's 
contributions to the field of endeavor,"2 but as noted above it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility. Here, the Petitioner provides a chart taken from an article posted on a website in 2015 
which shows the average number of citations to papers published in several broad fields, and notes 
that it shows that papers in the field of engineering average approximately 5 citations, meaning that 
citations to her 2007 paper are nearly IO times the average. However, since the number of citations 
in a field may change over time, it is not apparent that this data from an article posted in 2015 remained 
accurate 6 years later at the time of filing. In addition, the Petitioner has not explained how a 
comparison to the average citation rate in a broad field such as engineering provides an accurate gauge 
of the significance of this paper in the Petitioner's area of expertise. Finally, comparison of the 
citations to the Petitioner's paper with the average number of citations in the field does not show that 
it was amongst the most highly-cited papers in the field. 
In further support of the meaning of the number of citations to her 2007 paper in Aviation, and in 
response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted several reports. Two of these were from the 
Russian elibrar .ru website and show searches for articles published by authors affiliated with the 
where the Petitioner was employed as a researcher for 
several years, and here she received her Ph.D. These show that ofresearchers affiliated with I I she ranks in terms of overall citations in the field of transport, and that her 2007 paper 
ranks in the field of mechanical engineering from those authors affiliated with I She also 
submits a webpage from Aviation showing that her 2007 paper ranks in number of views of the 
papers published in that journal. These reports substantially limit the area of consideration to either a 
single journal or a single institution, and therefore the results do not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's contribution to the overall field. For example, the list showing her total citations ranks 
her out of only 16 other researchers. Further, this list showing total citations in the field of 
"transport" does not reflect the relative impact of the citations to her 2007 paper. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the reference letters she submitted show that she has made 
contributions of major significance. 3 She points out that some of the authors of these letters indicate 
that they have cited to her work in their own published papers in the field. of 
the University inl !Ukraine states that his group used the Petitioner's 2007 
paper as a foundation to develop a new forecasting method which combined her approach with 
another technique to achieve more accurate results. While he states that the Petitioner's work 
"benefitted not only our research but the industry as a whole," he does not provide details of how her 
work made an impact on the research of others beyond listing the nationalities of others who have also 
cited to the 2007 paper. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendix 
3 All of the reference letters in the record were reviewed and considered, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
4 
a also mentions another paper authored by the Petitioner in 2013, which he 
indicates was published in the Scientific Bulletin of Moscow State Technical University of Civil 
Aviation, and claims that it shows that she "was among the first researchers worldwide to adopt more 
sophisticated techniques." Despite his statement that "this work became a very important precursor 
of many similar research works that followed," there is no evidence in the record that this paper had 
any influence on the field or other researchers. Notably, the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile 
indicates that this paper had not been cited by other researchers at the time the petition was filed. 
Another letter was written by of the I University of Technology and 
Economics, who also indicates that the Petitioner was among the first to use an model to predict 
air traffic demand and "take the dynamics of air route networks into account." He states that her "2013 
work" introduced a newl I that "was poised to change the game," and that while it was useful 
in his research "it can do much more and has a great potential to improve air transportation indsuty 
workdliwe [sic]." I I goes on to provide a lengthy analysis of the forecast model used 
by the Federal Aviation Administration in the U.S., but the record lacks evidence that the Petitioner's 
model had fulfilled that potential or generated significant interest from the FAA or other agencies or 
amongst researchers in the field. 
of the I I University of Technology, who met the Petitioner at 
scientific conferences, writes that she was the first to consider air routel I development in her 
forecasts of aviation traffic, while leading aircraft producers based their forecasts on existing air routes. 
Butl ldoes not indicate that those producers and others in the field have now adopted 
the Petitioners approach or models, nor does the record include documentary evidence that they have 
done so. 
Our review of the evidence discussed above together with other evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion shows that while the Petitioner was among the first researchers to apply to the problem 
of modelling passenger air traffic demand, her models and techniques have not been shown to have 
widely influenced other researchers in her field. For example, both I and 
write in their reference letters that her model and method have been adopted as a standard at 
but the record does not include documentary evidence to support these statements. Further, the 
adoption of her work by her colleagues and the institution that employed her for nearly a decade does 
not show that her work has contributed to the overall field to the level of major significance. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they performed 
either a leading or critical role, and that the organizations that they played that role for have a 
distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational 
hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role is one in which the petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities.4 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
5 
The Petitioner focuses on appeal on her role at I I where she performed as a junior research 
assistant from 2008 to 2017. We note that despite the Director's specific request in his RFE, the 
Petitioner did not include evidence supporting the institution's distinguished reputation beyond 
statements the statements of its officials in their reference letters and a reference to the institution's 
website. Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence about I and its reputation 
on appeal, as noted above we will consider only the record of evidence before the Director in our 
rev1ew. 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the letter from I did not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner held a leading position atc=J.in terms of its overall organizational hierarchy, or that her 
position was critical or influential to On appeal, the Petitioner refers again to the report from 
the Russian eliblrary.edu website showing that in the area of transport, she ranks out of 16 
researchers from in number of citations to her work. Despite her claim that this is "substantial" 
evidence of her critical role, this evidence provides no connection between the citations to her work 
in this limited subject field and any contributions to the activities of las an institution. 
Turning tol I letter, she highlights the sections of his letter stating that she was one of 
the institution's "most prolific researchers at the time," which led to her receipt of a Certificate of 
Merit. However, I does not go beyond the language of this certificate to explain its 
significance or the significance of the work which led to the Petitioner's receipt of the certificate. In 
a later section of the letter, he states that the method developed by the Petitioner "was adopted as a 
standard and leading technique for predicting air route existence by I I ( and, therefore, by the 
Russian Department of Transportation.) It is indisputable that [the Petitioner] pioneered the 
application of to the problem of long-term forecasting of aviation traffic in .. " But he 
does not explain the impact of the Petitioner's work onl I overall activities. 
Another letter on which the Petitioner focuses here was written by another I I official,D 
___ He describes a different project on which he collaborated with the Petitioner, in which 
they decided to usel Ito predict the cost of I I airplane then under development. While 
he describes that as a novel us of at the time he does not indicate that this work was critical for In addition, addition, he also states, lik that her forecasting methods "were standardized 
bye=] and by the aviation de artment," but like I I does not go further into depth to 
explain the impact this had on overall operations. As such, this evidence does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role at as either leading or critical. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged receipt of salary statistics from the website rosstata.gov.ru 
and the Petitioner's income tax report from 2014, but noted that these were not accompanied by 
certificates of translation as required per 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
translations certificates, as well as the original documents in Russian. She asserts that her salary of 
898,644 RUB in 2014 is high when compared to the yearly average income for a Russian researcher, 
which she indicates was 378,972 RUB. We first note that it is not apparent from the evidence how 
the Petitioner arrived at this figure. The chart submitted with her response to the Director's RFE 
6 
clearly indicates that the average monthly salary for workers in "research and development" was 
56,188 RUB, which equates to an annual salary of 674,256 RUB. 
In addition, the statistics from Rosstat do not provide sufficient detail to form a useful basis for 
comparison to the Petitioner's salary. Evidence to show that a person's compensation is high relative 
to that of others in the field may include geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. 5 
Average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with 
different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The AAO notes that 
in Matter of Racine, 1995 WL 153319 at * 1, *4 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), the court stated: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is 
not a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of 
play; but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Grimson v. INS, 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
Although the present case arose within the jurisdiction of another federal judicial district and circuit, 
the court's reasoning indicates that USCIS' interpretation of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
is reasonable. In this case, the data from Rosstat appears to consider all workers engaged in research 
and development, regardless of education, experience, or the complexity of the duties they perform, 
and is therefore not an adequate basis of comparison to the Petitioner's position as a researcher holding 
an advanced degree. Further, the only figure provided is an average. Although the Petitioner's 
compensation in 2014 was certainly above the average figure provided, the data is not sufficient to 
establish that it can be considered to be high when compared to top earners in similar positions. 
Finally, this is a national figure, and therefore does not take into account the inevitable differences in 
compensation based upon location, especially in a large territory such as the Russian Federation. For 
all of these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she has commanded a high salary in relation 
to others in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
5 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
7 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2023 In Re: 28694371 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a makeup artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. The Petitioner bears 
the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. 
Matter of Christo 's , Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
1On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence. She asserts the Director erred in 
finding she did not satisfy the criteria related to judging the work of others, publications about the 
Petitioner, high salary, membership in professional associations , playing a leading or critical role, and 
lesser-known awards.2 
1 USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit they seek at the time the petition 
is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). Therefore, we do not consider publications that postdate the petition filing as evidence 
that establishes the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing. However, were we to engage in a final merits determination , 
we could consider this evidence as support for a finding of sustained acclaim. 
2 Although an introductory paragraph of the appellate brief states the Petitioner is eligible under the original contributions 
of major significance criterion, the brief contains no evidence or arguments addressing the Director's determination under 
this criterion. Therefore, we consider this issue to be abandoned . See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 
2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See 
also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'v Gen ., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham , 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011 , 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 l&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) Uoining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner cites Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) for the proposition that the 
evidentiary criteria for establishing eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability is more 
qualitative than a mere counting exercise.3 We do not disagree this contention. The Buletini opinion 
indicates the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three 
criteria and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and 
substantiated reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini 
did not reject the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification.4 
The Petitioner asserts the Director applied the wrong standard when considering the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), related to a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; however, 
the Petitioner does not explain how specifically this occurred. Likewise, for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, the 
Petitioner contends the record does not support the Director's conclusions, but she does not explain 
how or in what way. The Petitioner has not identified a specific error related to these criteria but rather 
broadly disagrees with the Director's conclusions of her eligibility under them. Moreover, she has not 
addressed the evidentiary deficiencies the Director identified. As such, she has not overcome the 
Director's determination under these criteria. 
Regarding the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner asserts the Director erred in 
assuming the I !Academy was an educational institution with cosmetology and fashion 
curriculum where the Petitioner served in an instructor role. However, the Petitioner provided a letter 
from the founder of the academy, stating the Petitioner worked as "a make-up teacher." Therefore, 
we conclude the Director's assumption had some basis. Neve1iheless, the Petitioner states on appeal 
that she participated in a fashion project as a jury member or a makeup artist and relies upon the 
evidence previously provided, including the letter from the founder. Based upon the Petitioner's use 
of the word "or," it is unclear whether the Petitioner served in a jury role or a makeup artist role. In 
addition, the Petitioner does not address the evidentiary deficiencies the Director identified under this 
criterion and therefore she does not overcome them. 
3 In contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court (such as with Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010)), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United States district court 
in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a 
district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have 
to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. 
4 The Petitioner also cites Gulen v. Chertoff, No. 07-2148, 2008 WL 2779001 (E.D. Pa. July 16, 2008) to conclude that if 
a petitioner meets three criteria, it is contrary to law if USCIS concludes that such a petitioner is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability. However, as our decision explains, the Petitioner does not meet at least three criteria. In addition, 
even if this case were applicable to the Petitioner, it would still constitute a pre-Kazarian federal district court decision 
that we need not follow. 
2 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), related to published material about the Petitioner in trade 
publications or other major media, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that Aquarelle is atrade publication 
or major medium. However, the Petitioner has not provided independent and objective evidence to 
support this claim. We will not rely upon the assertions of Counsel as evidence. See, e.g., Matter of 
S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not 
evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Nor will we rely on the publisher's 
self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) ajf'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that a magazine cover's self-serving assertions regarding 
the magazine's status are not reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. 
CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). For the reasons the 
Director already explained, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3[°x), related to high salary, the Petitioner provides a letter from her 
accountant, I Although I I lists the Petitioner's salary and provides 
comparative salaries for Moldovan women working in "artists/entertainment and recreation," we 
conclude that, for numerous reasons, the letter does not overcome the deficiencies the Director 
identified. Some of the reasons include that it does not corroborate the Petitioner's annual income 
with evidence such as payroll, bank, or tax statements, nor does it include documentation explaining 
how the general category of "artists/entertainment and recreation" is the comparative "best match" for 
the Petitioner's occupation and field. It also does not describe howl Ihas a "personal" and 
"working" knowledge of average salaries for makeup artists in Moldova. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), related to membership in organizations that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, the Petitioner asserts the Director should have determined the 
evidence established eligibility because (1) the Theater Union of Moldova (UN ITEM) is a professional 
association; (2) its membership extends to makeup artists; and (3) the qualifying requirement of "any 
creative person" establishes that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
Regarding (1), the documents in the record about UN ITEM state it is a "public association." There is 
little indication of what specifically the Petitioner relied upon for her conclusion that the association 
is "professional," nor does the Petitioner explain how UNITEM's purported professional nature 
establishes her eligibility under this criterion. Regarding (2), we reviewed the Petitioner's membership 
certificate and do not dispute the Petitioner's conclusion that makeup artists can be members of 
UNITEM. Regarding (3), the Petitioner states that the "creative person" qualifier "calls for 
discretionary decision voted by majority of Senate where prospective applicant must supply 
recommendation from at least three members of' UNITEM and that "creative" is a judgment in 
relationship to a prospective member for which "it is reasonable to conclude that an evaluator or rather 
a group of evaluators should be of advance knowledge (expe1is)" (errors in original). While we 
acknowledge these assertions, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to establish eligibility 
under this criterion for the reasons the Director already articulated. 
For the reasons the Director discussed and those explained above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2023 In Re: 28423935 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by apreponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, then we consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 0Af.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she received a major, internationally recognized award, 
she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The 
Director found the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), that 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts she meets six additional evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate she received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The description of 
this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the foreign national's receipt 
ofthe awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt ofthe awards or prizes.2 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of 28 certificates, diplomas, and awards that she and her dance 
studio received for various events. These awards do not satisfy the plain language of the criteria for 
several reasons. First, the documentation regarding these awards does not clearly specify that the 
Petitioner received the award for her choreography. In some instances, the award has the word 
"choreography" in it; however, the documentation in the record appears not to clearly differentiate 
between her ability in choreography, as opposed to teaching how to choreograph, teaching dance, or 
dance performance. 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol icymanual/HTM L/Pol icyManual. htm I. 
2 Id. 
2 
The Director noted that various awards reflected recognition for performance, rather than national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field of choreography. Most of the competitions' stated 
goals relate to inclusion, support, encouragement, child involvement, and teacher development, rather 
than a determination of who is at the top of their field. While the Petitioner may have won awards in 
connection with the dance performances of the children she taught, this is not a clear indicator that the 
award is for choreography. Even if it were clear that the awards relate to choreography, there is 
insufficient indication that it would be for excellence in the field. We acknowledge the categories under 
which the Petitioner won awards; however, it remains unclear why the Petitioner won the award in that 
category. The documentation about the awards offers little analysis of the Petitioner's choreography or 
how it places the Petitioner above others in the field. Further, the record does not include comparative 
information regarding how many awards for choreography other people received in the competitions. In 
fact, the entry information for many of the competitions states that every participant receives an award 
regardless of their placement. 
The Petitioner emphasized the national and international nature of the awards; however, the 
documentation does not substantiate this. While we acknowledge that the competitions may be open to 
national or international competitors, the various nationalities of the people who may participate in the 
competition do not necessarily bear upon the national or international recognition of the award. The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence that these awards are recognized beyond the event or 
organization on a national or international level and are recognized for excellence in the field of 
choreography. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought.3 
The record supports a finding that the Petitioner is a member of the International Dance Council (CID); 
however, the Petitioner did not establish membership in CID requires outstanding achievements. We 
reviewed the steps required to become a member do not find any that relate to requiring outstanding 
achievements of its members. CID "increases its membership constantly" and has more than 2,000 
institutional members and over 10,000 individual members. Without further context, these high 
numbers do not support a finding that members' achievements are assessed and determined to be 
outstanding. Further, constantly increasing membership suggests that individuals may become 
members at any time, as opposed to when they have demonstrated outstanding achievements in the 
field. Membership in CID appears to be based on a level of education or years of experience in a 
particular field and the payment of a fee. Such factors lead to a conclusion that the Petitioner's 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
3 
membership was not based on outstanding achievements in the field.4 As such, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in thefieldfor which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.5 
The Petitioner submitted a printout of an article entitled 'I I" The article is primarily 
about flamenco and only quotes or references the Petitioner. For example, the article references the 
Petitioner in relation to where she purchases students' dance shoes and what she tells students about 
flamenco. While the article mentions the Petitioner in the context of a dance competition and notes 
the age demographics of the people with whom she works, we agree with the Director that the article 
is not about her or her work in the field. Articles that are not about athe foreign national do not fulfill 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We need 
not reach the issue of whether the publisher, Kazpravda, would be considered a professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director erred in not considering the Petitioner's appearance on 
"Good Morning Kazakhstan." We reviewed the transcript and photos of the morning show but 
conclude it does not establish eligibility under this criterion. First we uestion the accurac of the 
translation.6 To illustrate, statements such as' " 
and ~----------------~' even when taken within the context of the 
morning show conversation, do not convey any meaning. Further, the morning show appears to have 
aired solely on YouTube, which is afree, on line video platform that enables individuals to upload their 
own videos and have their own channels. We do not consider YouTube to be a professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance.7 
4 Id. 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 English translations of foreign language documents are required under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
4 
The Petitioner submitted numerous reference letters from colleagues and professionals. However, the 
authors did not sufficiently describe the Petitioner's contributions or their significance to the field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are ofmajor significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.9 
The authors reference competitions the Petitioner's students won and offer general praise of her 
abilities and involvement in dance. Several authors claim the Petitioner was the first person in 
Kazakhstan to teach children flamenco and that she made flamenco relevant and accessible to modern 
audiences. However, the authors do not corroborate these assertions with objective, independent 
evidence. Even if we were to accept that the Petitioner was the first person in Kazakhstan to teach 
children flamenco, this would appear to relate to her ability in teaching dance, rather than in 
choreography. In addition, even if we were to accept that she made flamenco more popular in her city 
or country, it is unclear how this would be of major significance in the field of choreography or 
flamenco. The authors of the letters often label the Petitioner's work as "original" without providing 
sufficient details to substantiate such a characterization. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. See 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). To illustrate, 
teaching or performing dance in shopping malls does not appear to be an original idea or of major 
significance to the field of choreography. Similarly, it is not clear how "translating" flamenco to 
Russian speakers, making flamenco a '"new trend," or providing flamenco masterclasses and lectures 
is either original or of major significance in the field of choreography. 
Some authors reference that she developed 'l ~' a mixture of flamenco with more 
classical dance forms. However, the record does not sufficiently substantiate that this is an original 
contribution or that it is attributable to the Petitioner, as mixing genres and types of dance is common 
and longstanding. Further, simply because the fusion may contain the Petitioner's individual or 
creative style is not necessarily sufficient to establish its originality. Even if~-----~was 
developed or created by the Petitioner, she would still need to demonstrate its impact or influence 
beyond the people who engage her for performances, teaching, or lecturing.1 ° For instance, 
documentation describes the significance of the Petitioner's contributions, noting that she is a role 
model for children dancing flamenco in Kazakhstan, has positively impacted their development, and 
saved them from harmful lifestyles, as well as that she provides adult women with a method to 
overcome shyness. The record contains insufficiently detailed evidence to support these contributions, 
but even if it did, this would not establish how the contributions are of major significance in the 
choreography field. 
The Petitioner emphasized her involvement in the j r flamenco group; however, the record 
does not sufficiently describe her activities as a choreographer, as opposed to highlighting her activity 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
as a performer. The Petitioner asserts that she wrote a flamenco guide and runs a dance studio; 
however, she does not explain how creating a dance guide or opening a dance studio, even a unique 
one, is an original contribution. The Petitioner has not established that her personal achievements are 
original contributions which have been of major significance to the choreography field. We conclude 
she has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner must establish that she has perfonned in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establ ishment.11 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.12 
The Petitioner offered evidence that she won several awards; however, her "laureate role" is not 
sufficiently explained. The evidence does not provide meaningful analysis of her role as a 
choreographer in winning the awards. The Petitioner also submitted evidence that her dance studio 
contracts and collaborates with fitness studios and fitness membership services. While this indicates 
her classes are a form of exercise, without more, we conclude that entering into contracts or 
collaborations of this nature does not establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 
organizations of distinguished reputations. 
Regarding her role in the group, Counsel emphasized that '·thanks to" the Petitioner, the ~-~I group achieved success I in a short 
t' time and "could demonstrate dance and musical 
compositions for the residents of Further, "thanks to" her choreography abilities, all 
productions and programs became a series of lectures the I I group conducted. However, 
Counsel's unsubstantiated asse1iions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 l&N 
Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus 
are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Although we have thoroughly examined the evidence, 
there is insufficient information about her specific role in the I lgroup to substantiate a finding 
that it is leading or critical, particularly as flamenco involves more elements than just performances 
and dance choreography.13 I I
To the extent the evidence substantiates a finding that the Petitioner founded and is the chief 
choreographer of the 1 I' studio, we conclude that such a role could be leading or critical. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner has not sufficiently established that ' ' has a distinguished 
reputation. Documentation in the record indicates the students of' studio won awards, 
as did other dancers from other studios. Other documentation indicates that ~---~ may be 
popular in I I However, neither of these factors is a sufficient basis for establishing a 
distinguished reputation. As every participant earns an award at many of the referenced competitions, 
as well as that other awards or competitions exist outside of those referenced, we cannot conclude that 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id. 
13 For instance, the record includes documentation stating that flamenco also involves elements of music and singing. 
6 
such awards distinguish the studio. Similarly, the popularity of the studio may relate to its relatively 
new status (founded inl 2018), (ather than its reputation. Alternatively, the studio's popularity may 
relate to its location in whereas other dance studios teaching flamenco in Kazakhstan are in I I Without further information, we cannot conclude that the 1 t studio is an 
organization with a distinguished reputation.14 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Summary of Eligibility Criteria 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, original contributions, or a leading and critical role. Additionally, the Petitioner 
did not assert, nor does the record support a finding of, eligibility under criteria 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi), (ix), or (x). Although the Petitioner claims eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
for judging others' work, we need not analyze this criterion. Even if the Petitioner established 
eligibility under it, she would still be unable to establish that she is eligible under at least three of the 
ten criteria.15 Therefore, we will not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude 
that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). For the reasons 
discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person," found at https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. 
15 We reserve arguments relating to criterion 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 
(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to 
the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal 
where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19099221 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we dismissed the appeal. We 
determined that the Petitioner met the requisite initial evidentiary requirements but concluded in a 
final merits determination that he did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed two motions, which we also dismissed. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combined motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that although he met the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small 
percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(2). 
In the Petitioner's first motion, a motion to reconsider, he argued that we overlooked or did not 
properly weigh certain evidence related to the awards, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v). He asserted that proper consideration of that evidence should 
have resulted in a conclusion in the final merits determination that he established his sustained acclaim 
and placement among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. In dismissing 
the motion to reconsider, we considered each of his claims in tum and explained how our appellate 
decision did in fact address the specific evidence he claimed had been overlooked. We observed that 
while the Petitioner may have disagreed with our assessment of that evidence, he did not establish that 
2 
we had overlooked it in adjudicating his appeal, or that we had misapplied law or users policy in our 
evaluation of such evidence. Finally, we acknowledged the Petitioner's request that we consider new 
evidence submitted for the first time in support of his motion to reconsider. We did not consider the 
new evidence, emphasizing that a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In his second motion, a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, the Petitioner once again 
claimed that we failed to consider certain evidence he submitted in support of the awards, judging and 
original contributions criteria at 8 e.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v) in adjudicating his appeal. The 
Petitioner, however, made no reference to our decision dismissing his previous motion to reconsider, 
but rather focused on our appellate decision. 
In dismissing the motion to reconsider, we observed that the Petitioner's brief was essentially identical 
to the previous brief submitted in support of his first motion. Although the Petitioner contended that 
we erred in our dismissal of the appeal, he did not attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in 
our most recent decision, or establish how we had misapplied the law or users policy in dismissing 
the previous motion to reconsider. Instead, the Petitioner maintained that we erred in our adjudication 
of the appeal by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy. Again, while our appellate 
decision was not the subject of the Petitioner's motion, we nevertheless addressed the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) and other 
pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian and binding users policy guidance. 
We determined that the Petitioner's assertions were not persuasive, noting that the Buletini decision does 
not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization of the adjudication process as including 
a final merits determination. 
Finally, with regard to the Petitioner's motion to reopen, we noted that he did not present new facts in 
his brief or submit any documentary evidence in support of the motion. Accordingly, we determined 
that he did not show proper cause to warrant reopening. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief in which he once again criticizes users policy 
guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant petitions1 and rejects our 
reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting a multi-part analysis that includes a final merits 
determination. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that we imposed requirements not found in the 
statutory language by requiring the Petitioner to demonstrate his eligibility within a final merits 
analysis in our appellate decision after determining that he met three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner, however, does not articulate a claim that we misapplied this policy in our adjudication 
of his prior motion to reconsider. Rather, he maintains that we erred in our adjudication of the prior 
motions, and the underlying appeal, by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy and asserts 
we should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court 
decisions in adjudicating our prior decisions. 
1 Current USCIS policy guidance governing extraordinary ability classification can be found at 6 USC1S Policy Manual 
F .2(B)(2), https://www .uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part- f-chapter-2. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that we misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit decision in Kazarian, as that decision 
only mentioned a second step in adjudicating petitions for individuals of extraordinary ability, the final 
merits determination, in dicta. The Petitioner argues that the proper analysis we should have applied 
was set forth in Buletini, a district court decision. The court in Buletini stated: 
Once it is established that the alien's evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria 
listed in [the regulation], the alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability unless 
the INS sets forth specific and substantiated reasons for its finding that the alien, despite 
having satisfied the criteria, does not meet the extraordinary ability standard. 
Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. Here, the Petitioner asserts that since he met at least three of the 
required criteria, he had demonstrated his extraordinary ability by a preponderance of the evidence, 
and argues that under Buletini, "it is the burden of USCIS to show, by competent and substantial 
evidence, that that the petitioner is nevertheless ineligible for the benefit sought." 
The Petitioner's assertions are not convincing . While the court expressed the requirement that USCIS 
explain its reasons, it does not suggest the overall burden of proof shifts to USCIS. 2 In visa petition 
proceedings, the burden of proof rests with the Petitioner. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Moreover, the court in Buletini 
did not reject the concept of evaluating the quality of the evidence at any time, and thus did not reject 
the possibility of a final merits determination. To the contrary, the court implicitly assumed some sort 
of final merits determination . It did not say that an officer was required to find extraordinary ability 
once they found the three initial evidentiary criteria satisfied. Rather, it said that, in such a case, the 
officer must explain their reasons if they ultimately find extraordinary ability is lacking, stating that 
that legacy INS, now USCIS, may deny a visa petition when it "sets forth specific and substantiated 
reasons for its finding that the alien, despite having satisfied the criteria, does not meet the 
extraordinary ability standard." Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. Thus, contrary to the Petitioner's 
assertions, Buletini and Kazarian are not in conflict. 
The Petitioner also asserts that we erred in not incorporating the analysis from other district court cases 
that preceded Kazarian, such as Muni v INS, 891 F Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995), Racine v. INS, 995 U.S. 
Dist. LEXIS 4336, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965 
(N.D. Ill. 1996), Russell v. INS, 2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 52 (E.D. Ill. Jan. 4, 2001) and Gulen v. 
Chernoff, 1980 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54607 (E.D. Pa. Jul 16, 2008). As noted in our prior decision, we 
are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United States district court in cases arising within 
the same district, in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian). See MatterofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning 
underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us; 
however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. Ultimately , the 
subsequent reasoning of a circuit court decision outweighs the reasoning of an earlier district court 
decision. Significantly, the Kazarian court cited Buletini for the nature of the individual's 
achievements in that case. Thus, the Kazarian court was aware of the decision in Buletini and still set 
forth a two-step procedure . 
2 See also Muni v. JNS, 891 F. Supp. 440,443 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (including a "Totality of the Evidence " section that, like 
Buletini, requires USCIS to explain why evidence that meets three criteria does not establish eligibility , while not 
suggesting the burden shifts to USCIS). 
4 
The legal citations offered by the Petitioner do not establish that our latest decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law, regulation, or USCIS policy, or was incorrect based on the evidence of 
record at the time of the decision. Further, as already discussed, the Petitioner's assertion that we 
should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than 
Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive. 
As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4) requires dismissal of the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Although the Petitioner indicated on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
that he was filing a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , the Petitioner has neither 
presented new facts in his brief nor submitted any documentary evidence in support of the instant 
motion. 
Accordingly , we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his prior motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The motions will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed . 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2023 In Re: 25937049 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an aromatherapist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner 1s an aromatherapist who proposes to open an aromatherapy studio in ~I--~ 
Washington. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied the criteria listed below: 
• Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) ; 
• Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
• Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
• Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); and 
• Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied one criterion relating to leading or critical role for 
distinguished organizations or establishments; however, we disagree. 1 The plain language of the 
regulation requires the organizations or establishments to have a distinguished reputation, defined as 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person."2 In response to the 
Director's re uest for evidence, the Petitioner submitted evidence that she is the founder of 
1 We note that the Director did not provide any explanation for this conclusion. 
2 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited in 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
I additionj she provided copies of awards issued to I 
I _ such as the "Parents' Choice Award 2019" from I Iand the title of 
"high quality natural TCM aromatherapy product in 2020" from I I Although we 
acknowledge the awards, the Petitioner has not provided documentation to establish their significance 
such that their receipt demonstrates the distinguished reputation of the company. Without more, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that either company has a distinguished reputation as required by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
In addition, we observe that the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion regarding 
published material about the individual or provide any additional evidence on appeal. We therefore 
consider the Petitioner to have waived this criterion. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a statement, two letters of recommendation, one from a member of 
the International Services Advisory Committee (ISAC) at University I I 
I I Health and one from her publisher, and membership information regarding the United 
Kingdom's International Federation of Aromatherapists (IF A). In her statement, the Petitioner 
contends that there are "some details that need to be supplemented to facilitate" our judgement. She 
further discusses her education and experience with aromatherapy. Moreover, she asserts that she has 
been "making contributions to this industry for more than ten years, including creating training 
schools, researching and developing essential oil products and writing professional books." However, 
upon review, we conclude that the evidence does not overcome the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three of the ten criteria. 
Regarding the letter from the ISAC member, the Petitioner simply describes it as a "supporting letter" 
without any additional explanation of its significance or the criterion it addresses. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 
2013). Commensurate with that burden is the responsibility for explaining the significance of 
proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). 
The author of the letter states that the Petitioner has: 
[P]ioneered the practice of aromatherapy where she is the first to have discovered new 
practices and applications of aromatherapy as a form of natural treatment that not only 
utilizes the natural and rapid properties of essential oils, but also accurately treats 
various systems through [Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)] ideologies for fast, 
effective, and accurate effects. 
The author further states that his family member used her rhinitis cream, and it improved her 
symptoms. Moreover, the author states that he has read her books and that it has broadened his belief 
"in essential oils and the application of its natural properties as a plant-based and organic alternative 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision. that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
solutions." Even if we were to assume that the letter is intended to address the original contributions 
criterion, it does not sufficiently describe a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader 
field of aromatherapy, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in 
the specific field. The author's assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's work has been widely 
implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the 
field as a whole commensurate with an original contribution of major significance. 
With regard to the publisher's letter, the author also discusses the Petitioner's education and 
experience in aromatherapy. In addition, the author states that the Petitioner "took the lead in 
developing the cause of aromatherapy education and trainin in China." Furthermore the author 
discusses ______________the Petitioner's books entitled 
.__ ____, The author states that that "[t]hese books contain a lot of 
[the Petitioner's] painstaking efforts, including rich and exclusive clinic cases" and "[e]ach chapter 
has unique insights, which is extremely expansive and referential for fans and practitioners." 
As discussed by the Director, a scholarly article is an article that is written for learned persons in the 
field. Here, the letter does not establish that the Petitioner's books were written for learned persons. 
Instead, it appears they are a guide for using aromatherapy on children and pregnant women. 
Furthermore, the letter does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's books are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Moreover, this letter also does not establish that the Petitioner has 
made an original contribution of major significance in the field as it does not demonstrate a specific 
original contribution that has impacted the broader field of aromatherapy, provoked widespread 
commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 
Regarding the membership information from IFA, the evidence shows that there are five levels of 
membership and, in order to become a member, an individual is required to complete particular courses 
corresponding to the specific membership level and pay an annual fee. The evidence does not 
demonstrate that IF A requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for membership as 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, the evidence does not overcome 
the Director's determination that she has not met this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. We have long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter o_fPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance ofher work in aromatherapy is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
4 
national or international acclaim in the field and are one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2023 In Re: 23740321 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cybersecurity interaction designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and authorship of scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to leading or critical role and high salary, but determined that he did not satisfy 
the awards, membership, judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that he meets the original contributions criterion.3 After reviewing the 
evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 4 As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted documentation relatin to his desi n ro • ects 
(Nimble Storage, VMware, Sysdig, and Google), founding of the .__~~-----~-----' 
collaborative agreement with the World Bank, and involvement with the'-------~ Political 
Studies.5 In addition, the Petitioner provided letters of support from colleagues in the field discussing 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established the required high level of expertise for this immigrant classification). 
3 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's determinations for the awards, membership, judging, and scholarly articles 
criteria. Accordingly, we deem these issues abandoned. See Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 In response to the Director's re uest for evidence the Petitioner stated that he was abandoning his claims regarding the 
World Bank, the~------------------~Political Studies "because we acknowledged 
that they were not strong enough for this criteri[on]." 
2 
his work, as well as online articles about products offered by his employers. 6 The Director considered 
this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work 
constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with that determination. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that he provided endorsement letters from authoritative 
witnesses discussing his contributions to his employers' products. These references discussed his 
design projects at ~------------------~ but their statements do not 
demonstrate the originality of his work and its major significance in the field. As discussed below, 
the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner 
has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work for I I Dr. G-I-, Professor of Computer Science atl 
University in Italy, asserted that the Petitioner developed the user experience for the I....____ ____, 
Platform security called 'l I He stated that the Petitioner's 
"contributions consisted of a set of 'dashboard templates' which allow security administrators and 
security analysts to gain visibility into sensitive data risk across their entire organization." While Dr. 
G-I-farther explained that these "data visualizations ... gave users an easier access to an advanced 
risk summary and a much more graphical data privacy investigation tool," the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that this work has affected the field in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's projects for I I D-K-, the company's former Vice 
President of Product Operations, indicated that the Petitioner "delivered the ....I--------~ 
(NCV) creation user experience," "the multi-cloud NCV platform user experience," and an "artificial 
intelli ence AI -driven redictive anal tics visualization directly integrated with the acclaimed 
._________________ __.tool." D-K-also stated that the Petitioner provided user 
experience and graphical user interface (GUI) mockups of innovative features for public product 
releases, designed critical graphic guidelines and interactive visualizations in collaboration with 
product and engineering senior executives, and presented to C-level executives user experience 
prototypes and user experience product roadmaps for the company's product direction, but the 
Petitioner has not shown that his original work for I I has influenced the field of 
cybersecurity to the extent that it is of major significance in his field. 
In discussing the Petitioner's work forl IG-S-, the company's former Director of Product 
Management for Edge Computing and Internet of Things, asserted that the Petitioner lead the 
interaction design vision for Project Dimension (a joint effort with c=]Technologies), the 
development of the "interaction design between I I software configuration GUI and ~ 
hardware ordering GUI," and "the development of the interaction designs that would allow users to 
improve the cybersecurity posture of their regionalized Software Defined Data Center (SDDC)." 
While G-S-noted that the Petitioner's work was "significant for the company as a whole," the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that his work for I lhas been considered important at a level 
consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 These articles do not identify the Petitioner or discuss in detail the significance of his particular contributions. 
3 
With regard to the Petitioner's work forl IP-C-, the company's former Vice President ofProaduct 
stated that the Petitioner developed the user experience and user interface (UI) for its ._I------,.~-­
product "to ship all the 2019 and 2020 features, including the user experience and UI for the 
monitoring platform integration." P-C-also asserted that the Petitioner lead the design development 
of the Runtime Vulnerability Scanning UI, the regulatory compliance UI, and the cybersecurity 
activity audit UI, but the Petitioner has not shown that the aforementioned work has risen to the level 
of a contribution of major significance in the field of cybersecurity. 
As farther evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner contends on appeal that he has "offered 
numerous articles that mentioned my contributions developed during my employment withl II I' The record includes online articles, blogs, and press releases 
about his employers and their products. For example, the Petitioner submitted material from 
Searchstorage.techtarget.com, I lblog, Forbes.com/sites/moorinsights, Zdnet.com, 
Google.com, IvoBeerens.NL, SiliconAngle.com, Be-virtual.net, Thevirtuallyconnected.net, 
Diginomica.com, Businesstelegraph.co.uk, Insightaas.com, Ambidextrouspm.com, ArchitectingIT, 
Hpe.com, Mikeleahy.blog, Infrazxp.com, Globenewswire.com, Thenewstack.io, Venturebeat.com, 
Enterprisenetworkingplanet.com, Theregister.com, Techradar.com, Packetpushers.nr, Int1rma, 
Virtualizationreview.com, Containerjoumal.com, Managedmethods.com, Innovate.ie, com, 
Pmewswire.com, Commvault.com, Kasten.io, I lcom, Bloomberg.com/press-releases, 
Equinix.com/press-releases, Businesswire.com, Lenovo.com, Cloudmarketplace.oracle.com, 
IBM.com, Techzine.eu, Azuremarketplace.microsoft.com, Aws.amazon.com, Finance.yahoo.com, 
Techcrunch.com, Businessinsider.com, Cm.com, and Marketplace.redhat.com. 7 None of these 
articles mentions the Petitioner or explains how his specific original contributions to the products are 
majorly significant in the field. 8 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that the level of attention 
received by his employers' products signifies that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field of cybersecurity. 
The Petitioner farther argues that his "contributions have been widely adopted and integrated" into his 
employers' products as well as those from Oracle, IBM, HPE, and Microsoft Azure. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that his particular user experience and interface designs, which were a 
component of the aforementioned companies' product offerings, rise to the level of original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our decisions 
concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, 
clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) 
7 The Petitioner also provided articles from Reuters.com, McKinsey.com, and Gaiiner.com, but these articles discuss 
general industry trends and not the Petitioner or the products with which he,....V1""'·a=s""'in"'"v"--'·o""-lv-'--·e'-'d"'". ------------, 
8 For instance, the blog entry from Forbes.com/sites/moorinsights, entitled .________________ _. 
.______ ____. does not identify the Petitioner or discuss in detail his particular user interface designs. The article 
concludes by stating: "We're anxious to see Hewlett Packard Enterprise evolve this product. It really does have amazing 
potential -potential that would give HPE the opportunity to stand alone among its peers." While the author describes the 
product as needing to "evolve," "an Intriguing Storage Service Offering," and having "potential," these characterizations 
are not necessarily indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. Nor does the record show if this online 
blog entry was published in Forbes magazine. Further, the evidence does not indicate whether the blog was produced by 
Forbes staff, as opposed to being an open-source site through which anyone can post an entry. For all of these reasons, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this blog constitutes an influential platform demonstrating the major significance 
of his contributions. 
4 
(upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily evidence of a track record of 
success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 
F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held evidence insufficient "because it 
did not show widespread replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original work has affected the cybersecurity industry at a level commensurate with 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final 
merits determination. 9 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 18, 2024 In Re: 34874447 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the executive producer for a production company in Brazil and the chief executive 
office ofa television channel for a Brazilian audience based inl !Florida. The Petitioner intends 
to continue his work in the field of content production in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating 
to published material about himself and his work, and we will not disturb that determination. The 
Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), (vii), (viii), or (x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets these criteria-with 
the exception of the criterion at (vii) relating to display of his work, which he does not address. 1 The 
Petitioner submits new and previously submitted documentation discussing the responsibilities of 
executive producers and information about the _______ television shows that he has 
produced, and information about banks for which he has produced commercials. As more fully 
discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the required criteria. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(v). 
Initially, the Petitioner cited several elements ofhis professional experience as evidence ofhis original 
artistic contributions of major significance to the field of content production, including a certificate of 
appreciation for his sponsorship of the I I while working for I I We note that the 
intent behind the inclusion of this latter documentation is unclear, as neither the certificate nor a 
supporting letter concerning the certificate specifies what the Petitioner's sponsorship entailed or how 
it would be considered an original contribution or major significance to the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again points to documentation previously submitted as evidence that he meets 
this criterion; he references his work on original movies and television series for which the record 
shows he served in various production roles, and he states that his original contributions of major 
significance "are evidenced by the significant recognitions from organizations of distinguished 
1 An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter 
ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
reputation that systematically retained the Petitioner to perform work, as well as the media publications 
and nominations that the Petitioner's work has achieved." The record shows that the Petitioner and 
his company have produced content for __________ and other clients, that he and 
his work have been discussed in several publications, and that one piece which he produced received 
an Emmy nomination. While entertainment and marketing content produced by the Petitioner may be 
considered "original" in an artistic sense, the evidence discussing or recognizing his work does not 
identify any aspect of that work that constituted a contribution of major significance in the field. On 
appeal, the Petitioner further claims the following: 
The major significance of his contributions is represented by the influence and 
reputation that he acquired in the field of artistic production. For example, major 
organizations became influenced by the original products that he was generating and 
started to retain the Petitioner for unique and original artistic work in different market 
sectors. 
The record does not include evidence sufficient to support these assertions. Neither the articles about 
his work nor the two letters of support submitted from previous colleagues reference the influence of 
his work. Specifically, the articles discuss his establishment of a Brazil-focused television channel in I I and provide information for movies and television programs that either he or his company in 
Brazil were involved in producing; the letters of support reference his qualities as a producer, such as 
his skill, dedication, and reliability. However, these documents do not highlight any specific original 
contributions of significance on any level that he has made to the field. 2 The Petitioner must support 
his assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 
at 3 76. He has not done so here. As such, the Petitioner has not met the requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites his previous work experience to demonstrate that he has performed in 
leading and critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. He 
describes the roles and responsibilities of executive producers and asserts that his company, which 
produced a movie released in Brazil that received several award nominations, is a "distinguished 
production company." The record, however, does not include sufficient documentation to support this 
assertion; articles and letters that reference the Petitioner's production company do not discuss its 
stature within the fields of film or television production, and the record does not otherwise include 
evidence providing information about the reputation of the company.3 
2 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(5), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. Submitted letters 
should specifically describe the person's contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of 
the writer's knowledge and expertise. 
3 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(8), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 . In evaluating 
whether a distinguished reputation exists, the relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of 
itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information. Other relevant factors for evaluating the 
reputation of an organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 
3 
As to the company's association with organizations that the Petitioner claims have distinguished 
reputations, the Petitioner submitted documentation to demonstrate his company's working 
relationships with _________________________ While the 
record reflects that these are distinguished organizations and that the Petitioner's company has 
provided them with professional services, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner himself 
performed in a leading or critical role for either 4 For example, a production 
services agreement between his company andl Istipulates that the Petitioner's company will be 
responsible for its employees and that there will be no "labor relationship" betweenthose employees 
and I I And although a letter of support from an executive with describes the Petitioner's 
talent and professionalism, it does not describe any leading or critical roles performed by the Petitioner 
for I I The Petitioner's company may have provided services tol lin the form of producing 
shows for ___________ but the record does not contain documentation to clarify 
how the Petitioner's role as an executive producer for his company constituted his performance in a 
leading or critical role within any component of the I Iorganization or for I I The 
Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by 
box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner provides the following on appeal concerning the commercial success of his work as it 
relates to this criterion: 
The Petitioner has successfully operated his own production company and has attracted 
the attention of distinguished organizations that retained his services for substantial 
fees, as demonstrated by the contracts submitted by the Petitioner. 
Therefore, we understand that the Petitioner's commercial success in the performing 
arts is demonstrated by the revenues he generated from his activity in his field of 
extraordinary ability. Also, the constant demand that the Petitioner receives for his 
services and the media exposure that his work has sustained in major media throughout 
the years are additional evidence and important factors to consider for this criterion. 
The USCIS Policy Manual provides that this criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office 
receipts as a measure of an individual's commercial success in the performing arts, and that the mere 
fact that an individual has recorded and released commercial productions is insufficient, in and of 
itself, to meet the requirements of this criterion. 5 The Petitioner's assertions here concerning any 
purported "constant demand" for his services or "media exposure" are not sufficient, without more, to 
establish eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner appears to rely on his contractual agreements 
for services, such as one he provided froml I to demonstrate that he meets this criterion because 
the agreement includes "substantial fees" to be paid to his company. The Petitioner has not provided 
4 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(8), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. For a leading role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the individual is ( or was) a leader within the organization. For a critical 
role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the individual has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization's activities. 
5 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l0), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 
an explanation of how such fees serve as evidence of the commercial success of his television 
productions for I I and the record does not include probative evidence concerning sales volumes 
for any of his other productions. The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
therefore reserve this issue. 6 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner made provided satisfactory 
services in his field, but it does not show that this success has translated into individual recognition 
for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofl-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 18, 2024 In Re: 34903412 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a voice actor who seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria. We dismissed a subsequent 
appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
First, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reopen, which must state new facts and be supported 
by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464,473 (BIA 
1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, although the Petitioner disputes our decision to dismiss the appeal, he does not state new 
facts or offer new evidence. As such, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of a motion to 
reopen. 
Next, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, which must establish that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may 
grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness ofour prior decision, asserting that it "does not align 
with" with the preponderance of the evidence standard set forth in Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 
369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). The Petitioner contends that "fair and proper application" of this standard 
should lead to a favorable outcome regarding his eligibility. 
Except where a different standard is specified by law, the "preponderance of the evidence" is the 
standard of proof governing immigration benefit requests. See id.; see also Matter of Martinez, 21 
I&N Dec. 1035, 1036 (BIA 1997); Matter of Sao Hoo, 11 I&N Dec. 151, 152 (BIA 1965). 
Accordingly, "preponderance of the evidence" is the governing standard of proof in this, and in most 
administrative immigration proceedings. See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual, E.4(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. While the Petitioner asserts that he has provided evidence 
sufficient to demonstrate his eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification, he does not further 
explain or identify a specific instance in which we applied a standard of proof other than the 
preponderance of evidence in dismissing the appeal. 
The Petitioner also reiterates the two-part process for evaluating evidence under this classification, 
arguing that we erred by not conducting a totality of the evidence analysis to determine whether the 
Petitioner achieved sustained national or international acclaim. As the Petitioner himself 
acknowledges, the first step in this two-part process is demonstrating that he meets at least three ofthe 
initial evidentiary criteria. Our prior decision includes a comprehensive analysis which addresses two 
of the Petitioner's claimed criteria and outlines the evidentiary deficiencies that caused us to conclude 
that he did not meet the requirements of those criteria and therefore did not successfully satisfy the 
initial part of the two-part process. We then explained that because the Petitioner did not establish 
that he satisfied this first step in a two-step process, we need not go forward with the second step, 
which calls for the totality of the evidence analysis the Petitioner references on motion and which is 
part of a final merits determination set forth in Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Petitioner has offered no cogent legal argument establishing that we incorrectly applied the law 
or USCIS policy by reserving the totality of the evidence analysis in this case. 
The Petitioner also argues that we reached an incorrect conclusion on the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (x), which served as our basis for dismissing the appeal. However, aside from 
disagreeing with our adverse conclusions on these criteria, the Petitioner does not explain how we 
erred in applying the law or USCIS policy. 
For instance, we determined that the Petitioner did not show he meets all elements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of published material about the Petitioner and his 
work in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Namely, we determined that 
the Petitioner did not establish that the article in question is about him, even though it mentions him 
in his role as dubbing director. We also determined that while the Petitioner submitted online traffic 
and rankings from SimilarWeb for uol.com.br, the internet platform used by the website where the 
Petitioner's article is posted, the Petitioner did not provide evidence establishing the major media 
status of the website itself. 
On motion, the Petitioner merely references "[t]he article from uol.com.br" but he does not provide 
the name of the article in question or address the evidentiary deficiencies we highlighted. Instead, the 
Petitioner focuses on his "significant recognition" and "acknowledgement within the voice acting 
2 
industry," which are not relevant to a determination of whether he satisfied the specific elements 
comprising the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Thus, the Petitioner has not identified legal error 
in our analysis and determination concerning this criterion. 
The Petitioner also challenges our determination concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), 
which requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success in the performance arts. We noted 
that this criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of commercial 
success and we determined that while the record contains evidence of the Petitioner's performance as 
a voice actor in television and films, it does not demonstrate that the success of the projects the 
Petitioner worked on was attributable to his specific work. 
On motion, the Petitioner disagrees with our determination and argues that we must consider "the 
collective impact of evidence," citing Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, to support this contention. 
However, as previously explained, on appeal we determined that there was no need to conduct a 
totality of the evidence analysis in a final merits determination since the Petitioner did not establish 
that he met the threshold requirement of demonstrating that he satisfied at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. Here, the Petitioner has not established that we erred in foregoing a final merits 
determination under the given circumstances, nor has he identified legal error in our analysis and 
determination concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). And although the Petitioner 
asserts that we erred by not "adequately consider[ing] the collective impact" of his contributions, he 
cites no law or USCIS policy to support the contention that collective impact of contributions is a 
factor we must consider to determine whether he satisfied this criterion. 
As stated earlier, the Petitioner has not offered new facts or submitted additional evidence in support 
of the motion to reopen. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. 
Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 18, 2024 In Re: 34064976 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a petroleum engineer who has experience managing oil drilling projects in Russia. 
The Petitioner intends to continue his work in the energy industry in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), or (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets these criteria, as well 
as the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) concerning high salary or remuneration. As more fully 
discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the required criteria. 
Documentation ofthe individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As evidence of his eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted an Honorary 
Certificate from the I Iwhich he reasserts on appeal "is a 
prestigious national award recognizing significant contributions to the fuel and energy complex." He 
further asserts that the "certificate is issued to individuals with outstanding achievements in the 
industry, as confirmed by thel Iregulations," and that the certificate's "extensive participation 
and competitive selection process underscore its national recognition." In response to a request for 
evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided the following information regarding the certificate: 
[T]he criteria set forth by the ______ for bestowing such recognition 
emphasize the need for outstanding achievements and contributions spanning a 
minimum of five years. This requirement underscores the depth and duration of [the 
Petitioner's] involvement and impact within the fuel and energy complex, highlighting 
the sustained nature of his contributions over an extended period. 
Additionally, the certificate explicitly acknowledges [the Petitioner's] role in various 
aspects of the industry, including operational stability, timely commissioning of 
facilities, resource efficiency, and cost reduction. These facets represent fundamental 
pillars of success within the energy sector, indicating that [the Petitioner's] efforts have 
not only been substantial but also instrumental in driving tangible improvements and 
advancements within the field. 
2 
The Petitioner's assertions here are not supported by documentation found in the record. 1 
Documentation that the Petitioner references in both his RFE response and on appeal consists of his 
certificate and an order from the ________________ titled "About awarding 
employees of the fuel and energy complex." The order states only that the certificate is presented to 
the Petitioner "for a great personal contribution to the development of the fuel and energy complex, 
many years of conscientious work and in connection with the professional holiday -the Day of Oil 
and Gas Industry Workers." This document does not identify specific achievements required of a 
certificate recipient or speak to the recipient selection process. Although the certificate appears to be 
awarded by a component of the federal government, the record does not include documentation 
concerning whether the certificate itself is recognized nationally or provide details regarding the scope 
or scale of competition or eligibility requirements to receive such a certificate. The record does not 
contain supporting documentation describing what components of a recipient's performance are 
judged to inform a determination of demonstrated excellence in the field of energy production. The 
Petitioner must support his assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. He has not done so here. As such, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements for this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To demonstrate his eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his paid 
membership with the Society ofPetroleum Engineers, or SPE. The Petitioner included webpages from 
the organization's website that provide information about its mission, vision, board of directors, and 
president. On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional webpages from SPE's website and reiterates 
his initial assertion that membership with the organization requires outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized experts in the field. The Petitioner emphasizes SPE's mission and vision 
statements, which include connecting a global community of energy professionals to exchange 
knowledge to achieve a "sustainable energy future," and he states that membership benefits, which 
include access to industry journals and conferences, highlight "the association's focus on maintaining 
high standards among its members." In addition, he provides the following description ofthe evidence 
submitted about SPE: 
The documentation provided included detailed information about the SPE Board of 
Directors, demonstrating that the leadership and review processes within SPE involve 
individuals who are recognized experts in the field of petroleum engineering. These 
experts contribute to the development and implementation of SPE's rigorous standards 
for membership, ensuring that only individuals with significant achievements and 
contributions in the field are admitted. 
1 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are 
not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or 
prizes in the field; the number of awardees or prize recipients; and limitations on competitors. 
3 
The SPE's criteria for professional membership include not only employment or 
activity in the field but also significant contributions to the industry, demonstrated by 
technical competence, and adherence to high professional standards. This is evident 
from the comprehensive suite of benefits offered to members, aimed at empowering 
professionals in the oil and gas industry to thrive in their careers and contribute to the 
sustainable energy future envisioned by the organization. 
The documentation submitted from SPE's website, however, does not reflect the Petitioner's 
assertions. It does not include any information about membership standards or qualifications. A page 
from spe.org depicting the Petitioner's status as a paid member provides his membership identification 
number, validity dates, and his contact information. Neither the documentation originally submitted 
nor the information from SPE's website submitted on appeal speak to membership requirements or 
the expertise of any individuals judging the qualifications of membership applicants. The Petitioner 
has not supported his assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that he has met the 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted several letters of recommendation from former colleagues as evidence of his 
original contributions to the field of oil extraction, and he refers to these letters on appeal as evidence 
of his eligibility under this criterion. These letters discuss the Petitioner's managerial skills and "deep 
knowledge of the drilling industry," and they describe his responsibilities and positive contributions 
to his employers; such contributions include "his role in bringing the company's branch to a leading 
position in the rating of drilling contractors in Russia" and his role in the "successful implementation 
of the project to mobilize drilling rigs and drill deep exploration wells in the fields ofEastern Siberia." 
While these letters demonstrate the Petitioner's important role in achieving the aims of his employers, 
they do not describe any original contributions that the Petitioner has made within the field of oil 
extraction or to the oil and gas industry. 2 We note that, on appeal, the Petitioner also references his 
certificate from I Ias "compelling evidence of his significant contributions 
to the industry." As explained above, the certificate is not accompanied by documentation to establish 
what specific achievements are required to be awarded the certificate or otherwise demonstrate the 
significance of the certificate to an awardee within the field. The certificate itself does not speak to 
whether a recipient has made an original contribution ofmajor significance in the field. The Petitioner 
has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(5), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. Submitted letters 
should specifically describe the person's contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of 
the writer's knowledge and expertise. 
4 
Both in response to the RFE and on appeal, the Petitioner points to letters of recommendation from 
colleagues as evidence of his eligibility under this criterion. These letters describe the Petitioner's 
positive contributions to his employers' goals and indicate that he has served in leading and critical 
roles for those companies. The record, however, does not contain probative evidence to demonstrate 
that these companies are considered to have distinguished reputations. For example, while the 
Petitioner refers to one company as "a well-known service company in the oil and gas industry" and 
"a prominent player in the Russian oil industry," he has not provided documentation about the 
company or its position or level of recognition within the industry. And although the Petitioner 
initially provided webpages from the website of another company that employed him, the information 
within those pages is general and does not address the company's reputation in the industry.3 The 
Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because the Petitioner did not identify or claim eligibility under any specific criteria when initially 
filing his petition, the Director issued an RFE explaining that he could submit evidence to demonstrate 
his eligibility under any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, for the first time, 
the Petitioner asserts that he has met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
relating to an individual's receipt of a high salary relative to others in the occupational field. The RFE 
put the Petitioner on notice and allowed him a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence; 
therefore, we will not consider evidence submitted under this criterion for the first time on appeal. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter 
of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on 
appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
therefore reserve this issue.4 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
3 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(8), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. The relative size or 
longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered together with 
other information to determine whether a distinguished reputation exists. Other relevant factors for evaluating the 
reputation of an organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 
Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person." 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner made positive contributions to 
his employers, but it does not show that this success has translated into individual recognition for the 
Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 18, 2024 In Re: 33815651 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business-owner and inventor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary 's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and manager of a company that provides maintenance and emergency 
snow removal and sanitation services. The Petitioner has patented several inventions, including 
technology to operate snow-removal vehicles by wireless remote-control, which is regularly used in 
his company's contract work with government and institutions in China. The Petitioner intends to 
continue his work by starting a business in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the claimed criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii), or (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
meets these criteria and indicates that the Director did not fully evaluate the supporting evidence. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Director's decision does not provide a complete analysis and full 
explanation of the reasons for denial with respect many of the criteria that the Petitioner claims to 
meet. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner 
a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate 
review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding 
that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
For example, regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner submitted documentation for awards 
that he has won, includin reco nition as a National Outstandin Entre reneurI from the and his 
recei t of the To Ten Pioneers of the at the 
In denying the petition, the Director stated 
that the Petitioner did not submit documentation of media coverage to establish that the awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized, which the Petitioner asserts on appeal is not required evidence 
and is a factor in the Director's decision that does not account for the specialized nature of the field of 
heavy industrial technology. The Petitioner also initially submitted documentation to demonstrate that 
his awards are nationally known within the enterprise management and public emergency management 
industries as conferring recognition of excellence in leadership. Evidence includes news articles, 
information from the awarding organizations and from government websites, and letters from 
professionals in the Petitioner's field. The Director did not address this evidence, stating only that the 
Petitioner submitted evidence that included "unreliable sources" that carry "no evidentiary weight 
within the proceedings." 
2 
Further, regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted documentation showing that he 
has been interviewed by several media outlets about his business, and the Director asserted that these 
articles did not constitute professional or major media because their sources were platforms open to 
the public that allowed for self-publication. The Director did not, however, address documentation 
submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE) to clarify the operation of some of these 
websites, including a document from the International Communications Consultancy Organisation 
which discusses information collection in China. The Director also did not address an article in the 
record from China Construction News discussing the Petitioner's company's response to the pandemic 
early in 2020 under the Petitioner's leadership. The translated article shows the title, date, and author, 
and documentation demonstrating its use as an information source in an article by Reuters-an 
internationally known news agency. 
Additionally, regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner submitted news articles, letters from 
professionals in the industry, and copies of financial information and contracts which show that the 
Petitioner's company consistently works with publicly known entities in China, including government 
institutions and airports, and was contracted to provide services for the 2022 Winter Olympic Games. 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation demonstrating that his company has won numerous 
awards within the industry and has achieved specific standards set by the government to operate as an 
academician workstation, a provincial-level technical center, and an enterprise design center-the 
requirements of which involve investments and successes in research and development. The record 
also includes documentation from a government source citing the Petitioner's company among 
recognized brand names in China. The Director did not specifically address this evidence and turned 
again to general assertions concerning "unreliable internet sources." 
As explained previously, an officer must provide the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to 
allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for 
meaningful appellate review. On remand, the Director should analyze the specific evidence submitted 
to establish whether, based on a preponderance ofthe evidence, the Petitioner has met the requirements 
ofat least three ofthe alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director should 
ensure that the decision, if averse to the Petitioner, provides adequate reasoning to explain why the 
submitted evidence is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof 
Finally, we observe that the Director dismissed English translations of evidence that he stated were 
"not properly certified" because the certification did not "specifically identify the document or 
documents it purportedly accompanies"; however, our review of the record shows that, in response to 
the RFE, the Petitioner submitted an updated affidavit certifying the accuracy of the translations and 
listing the documents translated. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion above and 
taking into consideration all properly certified English translations. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition 
and remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. The Director may request any 
additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination and any other issues. As such, we 
3 
express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this matter on remand. Should the Director 
conclude upon review that the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision 
should include a final merits analysis ofthe record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one 
of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 19, 2024 In Re: 34868162 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a social media artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) also allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that she is a "powerhouse Hispanic Social Media Artist" and influencer 
"paving the way for other LGBTQ Artists." The record shows she is one half of the duo I I I lwhich has appeared on Cosmopolitan Latin American and the MTV MIAW Awards. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria, published material about the individual and their work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the remaining referenced criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address all the Petitioner's 
claims or evidence. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to 
allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for 
meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 
(BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
2 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the 
Director's decision does not provide a complete analysis and full explanation ofthe reasons for denial, 
we will withdraw that decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent 
with our discussion below. That decision should include an analysis ofthe specific evidence submitted 
in support of each criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 e.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
which requires submission of evidence demonstrating the petitioner's prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. We agree with the Petitioner's 
assertion that it is difficult to discern, based on the Director's decision, what specific awards were 
considered in reaching this determination; the decision only vaguely references "copies and photos of 
various awards" in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically identifying any documents. The 
Director did not otherwise address the Petitioner's claims or evidence related to this criterion. Instead, 
the Director made conclusory determinations, including that "there is no objective evidence to 
ascertain whether the awards or prizes are nationally recognized or internationally recognized, for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, and in beneficiary's field," and "the beneficiary's prizes or awards 
appear to be local or regional in nature," without addressing why the documentation submitted in 
support of this criterion was not sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. On remand, the Director 
should review the record, including the appeal, and issue a new determination with respect to this 
criterion based on the totality of the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
With respect to the scholarly articles criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), on appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that the Director did not consider its request, in the alternative, to consider comparable evidence 
under this claimed criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(4) provides that "[i]f the above 
standards do not apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence 
to establish the beneficiary's eligibility." users determines if the evidence submitted is comparable 
to the evidence required in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 This regulatory provision provides petitioners the 
opportunity to submit comparable evidence to establish the person's eligibility, if it is determined that 
the evidentiary criteria described in the regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. 
When evaluating such comparable evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are 
readily applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is trnly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation. 
A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to the 
petitioner's occupation is not probative. Similarly, general claims that users should accept witness 
letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. However, a statement from the petitioner can be 
sufficient to establish whether a criterion is readily applicable if that statement is detailed, specific, 
and credible. Although officers do not consider comparable evidence where a particular criterion is 
readily applicable to the person's occupation, a criterion need not be entirely inapplicable to the 
person's occupation. Rather, the officer considers comparable evidence if the petitioner shows that a 
criterion is not easily applicable to the person's job or profession.2 We agree with the Petitioner. 
Within its response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner made arguments for 
her eligibility under the scholarly articles criterion based on comparable evidence. However, the 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Id. 
3 
Director's decision does not reflect the Director considered the Petitioner's comparable evidence 
arguments. Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to determine whether the Petitioner 
first established that the scholarly articles criterion does not readily apply to her occupation. If so, 
then the Director must determine whether the evidence is truly comparable to this criterion. 
Regarding the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), on appeal, the Petitioner states that she 
asserted her eligibility under this criterion that the Director did not consider. Specifically, in her 
response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner made arguments for her eligibility under this criterion 
based upon the display of her work at "VidCon US" and "VidCon Mexico." However, the Director's 
decision does not reflect the Director considered the Petitioner's arguments for her eligibility under 
this criterion. The Director should, therefore, examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence 
submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
Finally, the Petitioner has consistently claimed that she can satisfy the "leading or critical role" 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), based on her claimed critical roles with I I I Iaffiliated organizations collectively 
known asl Iand wit ~--------------~ The decision, however, does 
not specifically acknowledge this claim, and only determined that the Petitioner did not play a leading 
role with~-------------------------------' In addition, 
although the decision referenced "information about the institutes and letters of recommendations 
which discuss her work," in its analysis it does not specifically address any of the documentation 
submitted, such as letters from L-C-ofl Ior L-G-G-fromI I We therefore remand the matter to the Director to re-exa~m_i_n_e_t_h_e_e_v-id_e_n_c_e_s_u_b_m_i-tt_e_d_i~n 
support of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If, after review, the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record, evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 20, 2024 In Re: 34828900 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a golfer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate 
their extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics through sustained 
national or international acclaim, and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the regulatory criteria. The Petitioner claims that 
he meets four of the regulatory criteria, namely that he had received a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award or prize, that he had membership in an association in the field in 
which classification is sought which requires outstanding achievements of their members, that there 
was published material about the Petitioner in professional, trade publications, or other major media, 
and that he has performed in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization or establishment. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), and (viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that he has received a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award or prize and that he presented published material about himself but 
that he had not demonstrated membership in an association or that he had held a leading or critical 
role. Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's determinations regarding the internationally 
recognized award, the published material, and the leading or critical role. However, we disagree with 
the Director that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish his membership in an 
association. 
A leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has performed in 
a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. Second, USCIS determines 
whether the organization or establishment for which a petitioner holds ( or held) 
a leading or critical role has a distinguished reputation. Id. 
A leading role means that the person is (or was) a leader within the organization or establishment. Id. 
In contrast, a petitioner in a critical role "has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to 
the outcome ofthe organization or establishment's activities." Id. A petitioner's role, rather than their 
title, determines whether their role is ( or was) critical. Id. 
2 
The Petitioner claims this criterion based on having sponsorship deals with 
and the He avers that his role as a sponsored athlete has been "vital to their 
marketing and branding." 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's role with these respective 
companies was not leading or critical to the respective organizations. In support of the criterion, the 
Petitioner presented several of his sponsorship contracts with the companies 1, an endorsement letter, 
a letter of support, and information on the companies. While these documents explain the Petitioner's 
contractual obligations and financial compensation to use the companies' products, the record does 
not sufficiently explain how the sponsorship deals marked him as a leader in the organizations or as 
making a significant contribution to them. For example, the Petitioner provided a letter of support 
from _____ an employee with the _____ The letter states that Mr.I I 
chose the Petitioner to represent the brand and that he was an excellent ambassador. However, it 
neglects to establish how this role was leading or critical to the company. 
Based on the record provided the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his role at these respective 
companies amounted to a leading or critical one. As such, he has not established the criterion. 
Membership in associations in the field for which class[fication is sought that require outstanding 
achievement of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they are or were a member of an 
association in their field of claimed extraordinary ability. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B). In addition, they must show that the association requires that their members have 
outstanding achievements, and that those achievements were judged to be outstanding by recognized 
national and international experts in their disciplines or fields. Id. 
Here, the Petitioner claims eligibility for the criterion based on his membership in the PGA Tour 
Americas, PGA Tour Latinoamerica, and PGA Tour Canada. The Petitioner provided evidence of his 
membership and the 2024 Player Handbook and Tour Regulations for the PGA Tour Americas. The 
Handbook lists out the eligibility requirements for players. It states that in order to participate an 
individual must win or place in certain positions in the prior year's tournament or in various other 
qualifying competitions. Individuals can also qualify in certain situations ifthey are members ofother 
specific tours, participate in an open qualifier with a handicap of two or less, or are invited by a 
tournament sponsor and have a handicap of zero strokes or less. The Petitioner provided a report 
showing that only the top five percent of U.S. golfers have a handicap ofless than two. Given that an 
individual can only qualify for the association by certain rankings in selective competitive tournaments 
or a high degree of skill, the Petitioner has established the criterion. 
As such, the Petitioner has established he meets three criteria and has satisfied part one of the two­
step adjudicative process described in Kazarian. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision. As noted above, where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidentiary 
1 One of the contracts originated after the filing of the petition. A petitioner must meet all of the eligibility requirements 
of the petition at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
3 
requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1115, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). We will therefore remand 
the matter for the Director to make the final merits determination in the first instance. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22065039 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Advanced Degree, Exceptional Ability, National 
Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner, a social work coordinator, seeks second preference immigrant classification as an 
individual of exceptional ability in the sciences, arts or business, as well as a national interest waiver of 
the job offer requirement attached to this EB-2 classification. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2). 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner qualified 
for classification as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, but that he had not 
established a waiver of the required job offer, and thus of the labor certification, would be in the 
national interest. We agreed with the Director and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, as well as his 
subsequent motion. The matter is now before us again on combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or has established that our decision to dismiss the prior combined motion 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior 
decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the 
Applicant's claims on motion. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
Initially, we note that motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same 
reasons as are petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered 
evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); 
see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in 
bringing proceedings to a close as promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to 
develop and present their respective cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCTS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "if proceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on May 12, 2021. The Petitioner filed a combined motion on our 
appellate decision on August 11, 2021. As our prior decision explained, the Petitioner untimely filed his 
motion and provided no explanation or documentation to demonstrate that the fi I ing delay was reasonable 
or beyond his control. On present motion, the Petitioner states that Counsel's law firm had ongoing health 
challenges and that his prior motion's filing delay was reasonable. In support, the Petitioner provides 
three COVI D-19 test results for Counsel, dated June 13, 2021, July 6, 2021, and August 6, 2021, 
respectively. Although the Petitioner states that the filing delay was reasonable, he provides little detail 
concerning the law firm's ongoing health challenges. While we recognize that Counsel may have tested 
positive for COVID-19, this does not necessarily establish ongoing health challenges that would prevent 
a timely filing. For instance, the Petitioner has not argued that Counsel's law firm shut down its operations 
during this time period. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that illness incapacitated Counsel for the 
entire period from June 13, 2013 to August 6, 2021. Even if the evidence had demonstrated this, it would 
still not establish how the delay was reasonable, given that nearly a month elapsed between the issuance 
of our prior decision and Counsel's first positive test results. Furthermore, such evidence would not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner himself lacked control to timely file or mitigate circumstances. 
2 
Although the Petitioner continues to argue that he is eligible for a national interest waiver, he does not 
provide any new evidence on motion to support his eligibility. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening the proceedings. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The filing before us does not entitle the Petitioner to a reconsideration of the denial of the petition. 
Rather, a motion to reconsider pertains to our most recent decision. In other words, we examine any 
new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissal of the Petitioner's prior motion. 
Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier dismissal of his appeal, and the Petitioner 
cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
The Petitioner does not cite to or assert that we based our prior decision on an incorrect application of 
law or USCIS policy. Rather, he simply requests that we reexamine the record and reach a different 
conclusion. Because he has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law or policy, or that 
the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision, he has not established that 
he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, the motion must be dismissed. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645544 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigration Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria for extraordinary 
ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the 
Director for entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a human rights and political activist who indicates that he intends to continue his 
career as a political advisor and strategist for human rights organizations in the United States. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to eight criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two criteria, relating to published material about 
the Petitioner in major media and authorship of scholarly articles in the field. 1 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria. 2 
Upon review of the record, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the Director's decision did 
not adequately address all of the claimed evidentiary criteria or analyze the evidence provided. 3 An 
officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
1 The record supports that there has been extensive major media coverage about the Petitioner and his work in activism. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and 
(vii). Therefore, we consider these issues abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n. 2 (BIA 2012) 
(finding that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). 
3 While we note that the Director's request for evidence (RFE) included some discussion of the evidence provided for 
some of the criteria, an RFE is not a final decision, and where, as here, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and 
claims in response, the RFE is based only upon a portion of the complete record. 
2 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
A review of the Director's decision reflects that he did not adequately explain the reasons for denying 
the petition. For example, when addressing the criteria for receipt of a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prize and participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv), respectively, the Director simply stated that the evidence provided does not 
meet the plain language requirements of those criteria and provided no explanation or analysis of the 
evidence provided. 
We further find that the Director imposed requirements beyond those in the plain language of the 
regulations. When addressing the criteria for contributions of major significance in the field and 
leading or critical role4 under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), respectively, the Director incorrectly 
assessed the evidence using the standards for the final merits determination, stating that the 
documentation provided "fails to demonstrate that the beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a 
career of acclaimed work in the field" or that "the beneficiary is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the top of their field of endeavor." Under Kazarian, the issue of whether a Petitioner's 
achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or whether they are one of a 
small percentage at the top of their field is only assessed after it has been determined that they meet at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied 
to individual criteria. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Finally, we note that the Director found that the Petitioner meets the criterion regarding authorship of 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) due to his authorship of several op-eds and the fact 
that he was the focus of an interview published by the Journal of International Affairs. However, 
while the record establishes that the Petitioner's op-eds were published in major media, it is not 
apparent that these articles were scholarly in nature. Generally, scholarly articles are written by and 
for experts in a particular field of study, are peer-reviewed, and contain references to sources used in 
the articles. 5 The record in this case does not include documentation that the Petitioner's op-eds were 
peer-reviewed or were otherwise considered "scholarly." Similar concerns apply to the interview, 
despite the fact that it was published in a scholarly journal. The document titled "What We Publish" 
indicates that "Essays" published in the Journal of International Affairs undergo external peer review, 
whereas "Features" such as the interview with the Petitioner do not. Additionally, it is not apparent 
that the Petitioner's role as an interview subject equates to the regulatory requirement of"authorship." 
On remand, the Director should reexamine the evidence provided to determine whether it satisfies this 
criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Director shall issue a new decision that fully evaluates the 
evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (v), (vi), and (viii), 
including evidence provided on appeal. If, after review, the Director determines that the Petitioner 
satisfies at least three criteria, their decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
4 Tt is further noted that in assessing the critical role criterion, the Director mischaracterized] the political protest 
campaign the Petitioner founded, as "a project by the country's government." This conclusion is unsupported by the 
record. 
5 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitioners -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence. 
3 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of his field and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see 
also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination and 
any other issues. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2024 In Re: 34800541 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neuroscience researcher, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the regulatory criteria. The Petitioner claims that 
he meets three of the regulatory criteria, namely that he has made original contributions of major 
significance, has authored scholarly articles, and has performed in a leading or critical role for a 
distinguished organization or establishment. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vi), (viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that he had made original contributions of 
major significance and had authored scholarly articles but had not demonstrated that he had held a 
leading or critical role. Upon de novo review, we agree that the Petitioner established the first two 
criteria. However, we disagree with the Director regarding their determination on the leading or 
critical role criterion and conclude that the Petitioner did establish this criterion. 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they had a role in a distinguished organization 
or establishment, in which the person was a leader within the organization or played a critical role by 
making a significant contribution to the organization's outcome or activities. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. Being in a "[s]enior 
research position for a distinguished non-academic institution," is one example of a qualifying 
role. Id. 
The Petitioner has served as a Senior Research Fellow at the 
for several years. According to a detailed letter from Dr. the Chief of the 
Neurocircuitry of Motivation Section, in the Petitioner's time at he has conducted and led 
research projects while supervising and mentoring post-baccalaureate and postdoctoral fellows. Dr. 
I letter further discussed the Petitioner's critical role to a number of different important 
research studies undertaken by I I Thus, it is clear the Petitioner has played a critical role at the 
organization. 
is the U.S. government research institute tasked with researching The 
Petitioner submitted various articles confirming that the organization is the largest supporter of the 
2 I 
world's research on _________ As the evidence shows, it is a highly distinguished 
organization. In light of the record, we find that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As such, the Petitioner has established he meets three criteria and has satisfied part one of the two­
step adjudicative process described in Kazarian. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision. As noted above, where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidentiary 
requirements, we then consider the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1115, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). We will therefore remand 
the matter for the Director to make the final merits determination in the first instance. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2024 In Re: 34794874 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a drug addiction counselor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which the Director dismissed. The 
matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) establishes the initial 
evidentiary criteria that a petitioner must satisfy. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, to assess whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that the prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § l 03.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The matter before us is the dismissal of the Petitioner's motion, rather than the previous denial of the 
underlying petition. Therefore, at this time we will not address the petition or the grounds for its denial. 
In dismissing the Petitioner's motion, the Director stated: "The evidence submitted with the motion to 
reopen and reconsider does not establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record 
at the time of the initial decision." The Director did not provide any details to explain this summary 
conclusion. As a result, the Petitioner was not able to address any specific deficiencies on appeal. 
The official having jurisdiction over a motion is the official who made the latest decision in the 
proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). In this case, the Petitioner filed a motion on a decision by the 
Director. Therefore, we do not have jurisdiction over the motion itself, and the proper course of action 
is to remand the matter to the Director. 
The Director must issue a new decision, addressing the specific claims and arguments in the Petitioner's 
motion. If the Director determines that the evidence and assertions are deficient, then the Director must 
specifically identify those deficiencies and explain why the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reopen, a motion to reconsider, or both. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2024 In Re: 33610020 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
On the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner described the proposed 
employment he seeks as "Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Athlete." As noted above, the Director concluded the 
record does not establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award. The Director further determined that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, 
at least three ofthe 10 criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, the Director found 
that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (vii), but that the record does not 
satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(v), and (viii), noting that the Petitioner did not assert 
he qualifies under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (ix)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner 
reasserts that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iv) and (viii), in addition 
to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (vii). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the 
record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(vi), (ix)-(x), thereby waiving these criteria. 
See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 
237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). The Petitioner does not overcome the Director's 
denial for the reasons discussed below. 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] participation, either individually or on a panel, as a 
judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted information from the Jiu Jitsu World League 
(JJWL) and the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF), indicating that, in addition to 
participating as an athlete, the Petitioner participated as a referee at various events. However, the 
Director distinguished the role of an athletic referee "ensuring fair play according to the rules" from 
judging the work of others, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The 
Director also noted that the Petitioner submitted printouts ofinformation from various websites related 
to jiu-jitsu; however, the Director observed that the printouts neither address the Petitioner nor 
"demonstrate that [the Petitioner] participated either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of endeavor." Therefore, the Director concluded that the record 
does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that Brazilian jiu-jitsu referees exercise discretion and apply 
subjective judgment to determine not only points participants earned during a match for their 
qualitative performances but also which participant ultimately won a given match and that, therefore, 
his participation as a jiu-jitsu referee satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Information in the record, including a letter from the arbitration director of the JJWL, and various jiu­
jitsu rulebooks, establish that, unlike many other athletic referees, Brazilian jiu-jitsu referees exercise 
discretion and apply subjective judgment to determine not only points participants earned during a 
match for their qualitative performances but also which participant ultimately won a given match. 
Because the record establishes the extent of the discretion and subjective judgment Brazilian jiu-jitsu 
referees apply, the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), contemplating evidence 
of the Petitioner's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or allied field of specification for which classification is sought, as required by the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's conclusion to the contrary. 
Because the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), in addition to the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (vii), it satisfies at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Therefore, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record also satisfies 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iii) and (viii). See, e.g., INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 
(1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is 
unnecessary to the results they reach"). We will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of 
a final merits determination, discussed below. 
Turning to the final merits determination, although the record satisfies at least three of the 10 criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), it does not show sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). Black's Law Dictionary defines "sustain" as "to support or maintain, especially 
over a long period of time" or "to persist in making (an effort) over a long period of time." Sustain, 
Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has "won over a dozen gold medals at international events, as 
well as becoming a Brazilian National, American National, World Master, and Pan American 
Championship medalist" both before the filing date and "in 2023 and 2024 ... [ c ]ontinuing to sustain 
acclaim." He also asserts that he is one of'------------------------' degree black belt in Brazilian jiu-jitsu." He further asserts that an opinion letter, written by an 
individual who holds a first-degree black belt, establishes the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. 
We first note that the Petitioner does not assert on appeal-and the record does not support the 
conclusion-that evidence material to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(x) show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. Rather, the Petitioner limits his assertions to documentation of his receipt of 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, 
as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
We next note that the Petitioner's assertions regarding the number of other individuals in the world 
who holdl degree black belts do not establish that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and how he may have sustained national or international acclaim. On the 
contrary, the copy of the IBJJF General System of Graduation in the record establishes that there are 
additional degrees of black belts, further surpassed by "red and black," "red and white," and "red" 
belts that appear to indicate superiority over a degree black belt. Furthermore, the IBJJF 
General System of Graduation indicates that factors in determining an individual's belt color include 
the individual's age, the duration the individual participated with a lower belt color, and the completion 
of certain training programs such as first aid and CPR, none of which are indicative of sustained 
acclaim. Therefore, although the record establishes that the United States Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu 
Federation awarded the Petitioner a I I-degree black belt in July 2020, it does not establish that 
such a degree demonstrates he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Moreover, even if being awarded a degree black belt may establish national or international 
acclaim, Brazilian jiu-jitsu participants appear to hold their belt colors and degrees, regardless of their 
competition results and other performance metrics. Therefore, without more, evidence that an 
individual has held a particular belt color or degree level for a number of years does not establish how 
such acclaim would be sustained through continued performance, rather than being merely perpetuated 
by default. As noted above, sustained acclaim contemplates support or maintenance, especially over 
a long period oftime, or persistent effort over a long period oftime, and the record does not sufficiently 
establish such sustained acclaim. See Sustain, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019). 
We further note that the Petitioner's references on appeal to evidence of his activities after he filed the 
Form I-140, such as competitions in which he participated in 2024, cannot-and do not-establish 
eligibility, and we need not address them further. A petitioner must establish eligibility for the benefit 
it is seeking at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A visa petition may not be 
approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new 
set of facts. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petitioner may not 
make material changes to a petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requirements. See Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
The record establishes that the Petitioner finished in first place for his various belt and weight 
classifications at competitions in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2020, 2022, and 2023, before he filed the Form 
I-140, at between one and four competitions per year. However, the record does not sufficiently 
contextualize the evidence of the Petitioner's participation in competitions. For example, it does not 
clarify the total number of competitions in which the Petitioner participated for any given year, and 
whether the results in the record reflect his overall performance, or simply a selective representation 
of it. The record also does not clarify, through objective evidence, the number of competitions in 
which typical jiu-jitsu athletes participate in a given year, to indicate how the Petitioner's participation 
compares to typical jiu-jitsu athletes' activities. Similarly, the record does not indicate the number of 
other participants against whom the Petitioner competed for a given belt and weight classification at 
the particular competitions, to contextualize the athletic competition he may have overcome-and we 
note that several results appear to indicate that the Petitioner finished first among only one participant 
for a given belt and weight classification. Finishing in first place by default because there is only one 
participant at a particular competition is not evidence of success or acclaim. 
4 
Further, the record does not explain omissions of the Petitioner's activities during the years 2015, 
2018-19, and 2021, such as whether and why the Petitioner may not have participated in competitions 
at all during nearly half of the 10-year period between 2014-23, inclusive. Relatedly, the record also 
does not elaborate on the number of competitions in which the Petitioner participated but he finished 
other than first place-whether within a given year or throughout the 10 years for which there is partial 
information, to contextualize the frequency of his first-place finishes. 
In summation, the record provides insufficient context for the acclaim the Petitioner may have 
received-whether national or international-for finishing in first place for a given belt and weight 
classification at any particular competition, especially when he appears to have been the only 
participant for his belt and weight classification at several competitions. Moreover, the record does 
not establish how the Petitioner may have sustained such acclaim. Therefore, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner's intermittent first-place finishes at some competitions between 2014-2023 
show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that the Petitioner is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
We acknowledge that the record contains an opinion letter, written by an individual who holds a first­
degree black belt, that opines, among other things, that the Petitioner has "sustained international 
acclaim" and that he "has risen to the very top of the sport." However, the evidence discussed above 
contradicts the author's opinions, indicating instead that the Petitioner has not sufficiently sustained 
whatever acclaim he may have received and that earning al degree black belt is not indicative 
of being among the very small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. As a matter of 
discretion, we may use opinion statements submitted by a petitioner as advisory. Matter ofCaron Int'l, 
Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, we may give an opinion less weight if it is not 
in accord with other information in the record or if it is in any way questionable. Id.; see also Matter 
ofV-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500,502 n.2 (BIA 2008) (providing that "opinion testimony, while undoubtedly 
a form of evidence, does not purport to be evidence as to 'fact' but rather is admissible only if 'it will 
assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue"'). 
We also acknowledge that the Petitioner discusses several other, non-precedent decisions. However, 
our unpublished, non-precedent decisions do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the 
individual case, and they may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the 
issues considered, and applicable law and policy. None of the non-precedent decisions the Petitioner 
discusses on appeal address Brazilian jiu-jitsu in general, or individuals who hold al !degree black 
belt more specifically; therefore, they provide minimal informative or persuasive value in this matter. 
We have reviewed the record in its entirety. The Petitioner has not established that the totality of the 
material provided shows both sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Thus, the Petitioner 
is not eligible for the requested classification. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, the 
totality of the record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2024 In Re: 34291254 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a web developer and digital designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 1 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
1 On the Fonn I-140 petition, the Petitioner specified that he seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner 's initial submission includes some references to a separate immigrant classification , for individuals of 
exceptional ability and members of the professions holding an advanced degree, under section 203(b )(2) of the Act, with 
a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement under section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. But since that time, the 
Petitioner has addressed various evidentiary criteria relating to extraordinary ability and has not further pursued the other 
classification mentioned in the initial filing. The Director adjudicated the petition under the requirements for extraordinary 
ability, as the Petitioner had specified on Form 1-140. 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's degree in informatics and information technologies in 201 7 in his 
native Uzbekistan. That same year, he began working in the marketing department of a Japanese 
information technology company as a web developer. The Petitioner has been in the United States since 
October 2022, when he entered as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied the requirements of any of the three 
claimed criteria. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary threshold. 
One of the claimed criteria, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), requires documentation of the individual's 
membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding 
achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner stated that he satisfies this criterion as "a member of the International Association of 
Engineers (IAENG)." 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit documentation of this 
claimed membership, and did not submit evidence ofTAENG's membership requirements. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director's conclusion "lacks an understanding of the provided 
evidence." The Petitioner does not identify that evidence or explain how it addressed the regulatory 
requirements of the criterion. 
The regulation requires documentation of membership. We agree with the Director that the record does 
not contain any documentary evidence identifying the Petitioner as a member ofIAENG. The Petitioner, 
therefore, has not satisfied the criterion's regulatory requirements. 
IAENG has three levels of membership, the highest of which, "Fellow Member," "is conferred on 
engineers and scientists of distinction and outstanding qualification, and who has made extraordinary 
contributions in the engineering field." The rank of fellow member may conform to the regulatory 
requirements, but the Petitioner did not specifically claim to be a fellow member of the IAENG, and did 
not submit any evidence to document such a membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "The IAENG's membership eligibility is determined by a panel of 
recognized experts in the field of engineering and computer science. These experts evaluate prospective 
members based on their professional achievements and contributions to the field, ensuring that only 
individuals with outstanding credentials are admitted." The Petitioner does not cite to any evidence to 
show that any such panel granted him IAENG membership. 
When the Petitioner first claimed membership in IAENG, he stated: "IAENG boasts a diverse 
membership, including research center heads, faculty deans, department heads, professors, research 
scientists/engineers, experienced software development directors and engineers, and university 
postgraduate and undergraduate students." The Petitioner did not explain how an association that admits 
undergraduate students restricts membership to individuals with outstanding achievements. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established, through documentary evidence, that he is a 
member ofan association that requires outstanding achievements ofits members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner has claimed to satisfy three of the eligibility criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Because he has not satisfied the requirements of the claimed criterion relating to memberships in 
associations, he cannot satisfy the minimum of three criteria. Detailed discussion of the remaining 
two claimed criteria, relating to leading or critical roles and remuneration, cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve these issues. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
rises to the level of sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22643167 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, anl I biologist, seeks to classify as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) by establishing that the Beneficiary made original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, or business-related contributions of major significance to the field. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is one of the few leading experts in the field of I biology 
and that he is well known for "his study of how the rapid I ofl I gene 
clusters enables al I aphid to colonize diverse plant species." The Petitioner 
indicates that he will enter the United States to continue his work in the field of I biology 
as a research associate with the I Institute, an entity affiliated with I University. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to three criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field in major trade publications or other 
major media. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), relating to judging the work of others in the same field and authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field. We agree that the Petitioner has met their burden with respect to these 
two criteria. Therefore, the only criteria at issue in this decision is whether the Petitioner established 
that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director provided insufficient analysis with respect to 
whether the Beneficiary met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), pointing to the fact that the 
decision largely reiterated the request for evidence (RFE). The Petitioner emphasizes scholarly 
articles published by the Beneficiary and stated that they are widely cited by other researchers in the 
field. The Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored submitted evidence demonstrating wide citation 
of his scholarly articles and improperly dismissed these citations as only "moderately valuable," 
providing little explanation to support this conclusion. Further, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director did not sufficiently consider several reference letters he submitted on the record from other 
professors working in the Beneficiary's field. The Petitioner asserts that the number of citations to 
the Beneficiary's work and the provided reference letters credibly establish that his research represents 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
2 
USCIS must determine whether the Petitioner has made original contributions in the field, and if so, 
whether the Petitioner's original contributions are of major significance to the field. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Contributions of major significance 
connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-136. The petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Upon review of the record, the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field. First, the Director's determination with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) was conclusory and did not fully address the submitted evidence. The Director only 
stated that the evidence provided was not "indicative of major significance" and that it "did not 
demonstrate how his contributions impacted the field as whole in a major a significant way," but did 
not sufficiently articulate the basis of these conclusions in light of the submitted evidence. The 
Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence reflecting the significant citation of the Beneficiary's 
published materials in the field and reference letters from professors in the field credibly discussing in 
the detail how the Beneficiary's research impacted and guided their work. However, the Director did 
not provide adequate analysis of this provided documentation. 
For instance, at the time the Petitioner filed the petition, the Google Scholar database showed hundreds 
of citations to his published original scholarly articles, with one specific article, emphasized by the 
Petitioner as an influential work relating to aphids, being cited 119 times. The U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Manual states that "a goodly number" of such citations "may be 
probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 1 As of the date of 
this adjudication, hundreds more citations have appeared related to the Petitioner's work. Although the 
new citations do not establish eligibility at the time of filing, they do reflect the field's ongoing reliance 
on the Petitioner research. In addition, as discussed, the Petitioner provided several credible reference 
letters from professors working in the field of I biology that discuss in detail how his work 
influenced and guided their research into the interaction of pests and their symbiont plants, specifically 
how I could be a target for insect pest control. The Petitioner has established that 
their original contributions are of major significance to the field. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Nevertheless, 
the record does not support approval of the petition, as establishing the third initial criterion does not 
suffice to establish eligibility for the classification. On remand, the Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
When considering the evidence submitted to show the Petitioner's acclaim and recognition in the field, 
the Director must consider whether or not the record corroborates assertions both from the Petitioner and 
in letters written specifically to support the petition. Further, the Petitioner's judging experience consists 
1 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
of peer review of scholarly articles for scientific journals in his field. However, peer review is a routine 
element of the process by which articles are selected for publication in scholarly journals. Simply 
participating in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. 3 Further, the fact that other 
researchers in the Petitioner's field are using his work in their own research satisfies the plain language 
requirements within the antecedent evidentiary prongs; however, the level that others are relying on his 
findings has not been properly demonstrated such that it could be concluded that this level of achievement 
rises to the level of this classification's overall requirements. The Director must keep such factors in 
mind when weighing the record and completing a final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2023 In Re: 2913 7920 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-I) 
immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . To qualify for this category, a petitioner 
must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" 
of recognized achievements in their field. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only two of ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant category -one 
less than required. The Director also found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's required intent to 
continue working in his field in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal and his 
following seven motions to reopen. See In Re: 27520761 (AAO May 30, 2023). The matter returns 
to us on his eighth motion to reopen. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts, supported by documentary evidence, and address "the latest 
decision in the proceeding ." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii), (2). We may grant a motion meeting these 
requirements and demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit. In contrast, we must dismiss a 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen includes evidence. But, contrary to regulations, the motion does 
not address the latest decision in the proceeding . The filing contains copies of website printouts. 
These materials purportedly support an initial evidentiary criterion requiring a potential noncitizen 
with extraordinary ability to show published materials about them in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The latest decision in the 
proceeding, however, concerned documentation for a different evidentiary criterion regarding the 
Petitioner's purported membership in associations in his field requiring outstanding achievements. 
See In Re: 27520761, at *l; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 
1 Our dismissals of the Petitioner's fourth, fifth, and sixth motions also solely considered the evidentiary requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . See In Re: 16159429 (AAO May 5, 2022); In Re: 23272884 (AAO Nov. 8, 2022); In Re: 
25690671 (AAO Feb. 13, 2023). 
The Petitioner's motion does not address the latest decision in the proceeding. We must therefore 
dismiss it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2024 In Re: 33964221 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a tax specialist who has worked for multinational accounting firms in Brazil and in 
the United States, as well as for the largest electricity provider in Latin America. He intends to 
continue is work in the United States as a founding partner of a business in Florida providing 
investment and tax consultancy services. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
relating to his service in a critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. The Director 
concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(iv), (v), (vi), or (ix). 1 The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he meets the criteria at (iv), (v), (vi), and 
(ix). We will not disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner met the requirements of the 
criterion at (viii), and we conclude that the Petitioner has also met the criteria at (iv) and (vi). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he has served as an instructor for his employer, which 
involved evaluating and rating the coursework of his students. The record includes letters from his 
employer discussing the courses and the Petitioner's position as instructor, as well as documentation 
showing that the Petitioner judged the work of others in his field of specialization. We conclude that 
the Petitioner has submitted sufficient evidence to meet the plain language requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence ofthe individual's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
1 We note that, although the Petitioner does not address the Director's conclusion with regard the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii) on appeal, the RFE response appeared to incorrectly reference the criterion at (iii) when referring to 
evidence relating to the criterion at (vi), which discusses authorship of articles in professional or major trade or other major 
media. That criterion is also addressed in this decision. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted scholarly articles in the field of tax law that he has written for his previous 
employer's website and for two publications in Brazil. One publication for which he is credited as 
one of three authors is _______ also known asl Iwhich the record establishes 
is a well-known, long-running Brazilian newspaper that provides news coverage to a Latin American 
audience. The Petitioner provided a source reference to Britannica.com, a trusted online encyclopedia 
written and fact-checked by editors of Encyclopedia Britannica. The Britannica.com entry2 describes I I as "widely respected for its thorough coverage of national and international news, its 
publication of the texts of speeches of important government officials, and other matter usually found 
in a country's newspaper ofrecord." This source reference, which states that I l"is sometimes 
called the I I of Latin America," affirms the newspaper's longevity and prestige. We 
conclude that the Petitioner has met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the 
requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
(vi), and (viii). We therefore need not consider whether he met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) or (ix). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 https://www.britannica.com/topic _____ accessed October 22, 2024 . 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2024 In Re: 33949619 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a downhill longboard athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § ll0l(a)(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , but 
did not demonstrate , as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of 
that small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability ifthey: 
(i) have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been 
demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation ; (ii) seek to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) demonstrate their work offers substantial prospective 
benefits to the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a downhill longboard athlete who has received several medals in competitions held 
in his home country of Argentina, competed internationally, and served as a judge for downhill 
longboard events. He indicates that he intends to continue training and competing as an athlete in the 
United States. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could meet five of the ten eligibility criteria, 
specifically, the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). 
The Director evaluated the evidence submitted in support of all five claimed criteria and concluded 
that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has been a member of associations that require 
outstanding achievements as a condition for membership or that he has made original athletic 
contributions of major significance in his sport. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (v). However, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies the plain language of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (iv), and therefore proceeded to a final merits 
determination. The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that he has achieved the required sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the 
small percentage of athletes at the top of his field. 
Upon review, the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner met the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) by documenting his participation as a judge in two downhill longboard 
competitions held in Argentina in 2018 and 2022, respectively. However, for the reasons discussed 
below, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets at least three of the five claimed 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 The record indicates that the Petitioner was admitted to the United States as a treaty investor in E-2 nonimmigrant 
classification in August 2021 and maintained this status at the time he filed this petition in February 2024. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his achievement of four first 
and second place finishes in downhill long board competitions held in Argentina between 2011 and 
2015. As evidence of these achievements, he submitted the following award certificates: 
• First place in the "Open Downhill Category" at the I 
Championship held in Argentina in 20 11, organized by 
• First place in the "Skate Downhill discipline" at the I !National Championship 
held in 2015, issued by the municipality of the I I Argentina. 
The Petitioner provided a third award certificate intended to document his receipt of a second-place 
finish at the I 2012" National Championship held inl I However, this 
certificate was not accompanied by an English translation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § l 03.2(b )(3). 
Finally, the Petitioner indicated that he achieved a first-place finish in the 20141 I 
I IChampionship held in I I Argentina. In lieu of providing a copy or photo of 
the award or official competition results, the Petitioner provided a letter from the event manager of 
the indicating that he won the event in 2014. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate his achievement of first place finishes in the 2011 
I !Championship and the 2015 I I National Championship. However, the 
Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence, which included the award certificates and 
letters from the event organizers, was insufficient to demonstrate that either of these awards is 
recognized on a national or international level. The Director advised the Petitioner of additional 
evidence he could submit in support of this criterion. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence related to the awards he received 
in 2011 and 2015. He did not supplement the record with additional evidence related to the 
I 2012 National Championship or the 2014 _______ Championship. We 
agree with the Director's determination that the initial evidence regarding the 2012 and 2014 awards 
was insufficient to demonstrate his receipt of these awards, nor does the record contain evidence 
demonstrating the level of recognition associated with them. Accordingly, he did not establish that 
either of those awards satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
Turning to the Petitioner's evidence related to the 2011 I 
Championship, the record includes a letter from the presid ent of 
I Ithe organizer of the race. He states that this competition has been held annually since 2011 
and "has grown to be internationally recognized." Mr. also explains the "rigorous process" 
the organizers use to choose competitors and states that the Petitioner competed against "distinguished 
names in the sport from around the world." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence related to the event, including a 
promotional publication from the organizer and completed scoring sheets which show the Petitioner's 
3 
progression through several rounds of competition to reach the final. The Petitioner also submitted a 
letter from the owner of Ione ofthe brand sponsors ofthe event, who describes 
the event as "a highly influential event recognized nationally and internationally" and one which 
"garners media attention." Finally, the Petitioner provided a second letter from Mr I I who 
highlighted the number of spectators drawn to the race and the caliber of its corporate sponsors as 
evidence of its national or international recognition. 
Here, the evidence of the national or international recognition associated with the Petitioner's prize at 
the 2011 ________ Championship is limited to statements provided by the event's 
own organizer and brand sponsor. While this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the 
same level ofrecognition or prestige associated with a Nobel Prize or other award that would qualify 
as a one-time achievement, we note that, according to USCIS policy guidance, examples of qualifying 
awards may include "certain awards from well-known national institutions or well-known professional 
associations" and awards presented by major sports leagues that "gamer national or even international 
media coverage." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (discussing how USCTS evaluates initial evidence of eligibility 
under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
Here, the evidence does not contain evidence demonstrating that! Iis a well-known 
organization with a national or international reputation, or that this organization or the events it 
sponsors are affiliated with national or international associations or federations in the sport which are 
identified in the record as the Argentine Longboard Association (AAL), the Argentine Skating 
Confederation, and the International Downhill Federation (IDF). Although the submitted letters 
emphasize that the ________ Championship sponsored by is only 
held once a year, the record reflects that other events held in Argentina are similarly billed as 
______ Championships." 
Further, although the letter froml Iindicates that the ________ 
Championship sponsored by I I"garners media attention," the record lacks 
corroborating documentation, such as evidence of contemporaneous media coverage of the 2011 
competition in which the Petitioner competed. While the statements ofthe event organizer and sponsor 
are not without weight, these assertions alone are insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's burden. The 
record does not contain sufficient corroborating evidence of the level of recognition associated with 
the Petitioner's first-place prize from this event. 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claim that his first-place finish at the 2015 National 
Championship I I is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. As noted, he 
submitted a copy of his award certificate, which appears to have been issued by the local government 
ofl IArgentina. The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I who states 
he is the tournament organizer for the I I Festival. He states that the National 
Championship I I is organized byl !Festival, sponsored byl 
and has been held annually since 2013, attracting "well-known and 
accomplished athletes and teams across Argentina." The letter describes the field of competition and 
the judging criteria, and states that the championship is "nationally recognized." 
4 I 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a second letter from Mr.I las well as a letter 
from I I owner of one of the event sponsors. In the updated 
letter, Mr. I I stated that the annual National Championship I !"attracts the country's 
top competitors" and "promotes the development of the sport within the country and on the 
international stage by receiving national media attention." In his letter, Mr.I I also highlights the 
media attention attracted by the event noting that such attention has the effecting of "boosting our 
brand and showcasing the importance of the competition." 
Although the record demonstrates the Petitioner's receipt of a first-place award at the 2015 National 
Championship! I it does not contain, for example, evidence that this event is organized by an 
entity with a national reputation, or evidence that the competition is affiliated with a national 
association or federation in the Petitioner's sport. While promoted as a "national championship" that 
draws competitors from throughout Argentina, the record reflects that there are other downhill 
longboard competitions similarly billed as "national championships" in the sport, held annually in 
other locations with different local organizers and sponsors. 2 Therefore, the fact that the event is 
promoted as a "national championship," without further context, is insufficient to demonstrate that its 
prizes are nationally recognized in the sport. The Petitioner himself does not mention this award among 
the "sports achievements" listed in his resume. 
In sum, while both the organizer and the event sponsor indicate that the National Championship of 
I I is nationally recognized and attracts national media attention, the record lacks corroborating 
contemporaneous evidence of the claimed recognition and media coverage. The statements of the 
organizer and sponsors, without more, are insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's burden to show that his 
award at this event satisfies all elements ofthe plain language ofthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner initially claimed to meet this criterion based on his memberships in the Argentine 
Longboard Association (AAL) and the International Downhill Federation (IDF). 3 
With respect to the AAL, the record contains evidence that the association was established in 2011 
and recognized by the Argentine Confederacy of Sports in 2021. The Petitioner initially provided a 
September 2023 letter from AAL President Martin Hernandez Elizalde, who describes the Petitioner 
as "a high performance athlete affiliated to" the association. The letter praises the Petitioner's 
successes as an athlete and highlights his experience as a judge in competitions but does not address 
the AAL's membership requirements or otherwise explain how the Petitioner's admission to the AAL 
satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 As noted, the Petitioner indicates that he placed second at the I !National Championship" in 2012. but 
did not pursue his initial claim that this was a nationally or internationally recognized award when responding to the RFE. 
3 In his resume, the Petitioner states that he was a member ofIDF from 2013 until 2017 and a member of AAL in 2023. 
5 
In a second letter submitted in response to the Director's RFE, Mr. Hernandez Elizalde states that 
"affiliated members" such as the Petitioner "must demonstrate outstanding achievements in 
Longboarding to the Board Committee to gain admission," and that this committee is "comprised of 
experts in the field of longboarding." Mr. Hernandez Elizalde identifies three members of this 
committee, noting that they include the current head coach ofthe Argentine Downhill National Team, 
the AAL's treasurer, and an individual who "organizes permits for competitions and selects judges 
and jurors for each event." Finally, he states that the Petitioner "obtained this membership due to his 
extraordinary achievements and contributions to the sport oflongboarding." 
While the AAL's president indicated in his second letter that the association requires "outstanding 
achievements" of its affiliated members," his statement is not sufficiently corroborated by other 
evidence in the record. The record contains copies ofthe AAL's statute and "meeting act." According 
to article 5 ofthe statute, the association admits active members, adherent members affiliated members 
and honorary members. Mr. Hernandez Elizalde refers to the Petitioner as an "affiliated member." 
We note that "active members" are those who "wish to collaborate with the fulfillment of the 
Association's purpose," are over 18 years old, and must, "at the sole discretion of the Assembly of 
Members," be able to make the necessary contributions for the Association to fulfill its purpose" as 
described in the statute. Based on the AAL's statute, other categories of members, including 
"affiliated members," have fewer rights and benefits than "active members" and it is unclear what 
role, if any, the assembly of members, has in reviewing their qualifications. Neither the submitted 
statute nor the AAL's "meeting act" indicate that applications for membership are decided by a "Board 
Committee" comprised of experts, as stated in Mr. Hernandez Elizalde's letter. The meeting act lists 
the "assembly of members" and "board of directors" as separate entities within the association, with 
the former exercising discretion to admit active members. 
Based on the requirements for membership stated in AAL's statute and meeting act, the record does 
not support a determination that membership in the AAL requires outstanding achievements, as judged 
by national or international experts, as a condition for membership. 
With respect to his membership in the IDF, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the "Members' 
page ofthe federation's website as evidence that he has an IDF membership number. He also provided 
a copy of the IDF' s statute. According to article 6 of the statute, prospective members must address 
applications for membership to the IDF board of directors which "decides on membership at its 
discretion." Members are required to pay an annual membership fee and "adhere to the statutes and 
the specifications." However, the evidence does not establish the IDF's requirements for membership 
or indicate what factors or criteria are considered by the board of directors when making membership 
decisions. Further, the statute indicates that board members are elected every two years by the 
association's members; neither the statute nor other evidence in the record indicates that persons on 
the board are recognized national or international experts in downhill sports. Therefore, the evidence 
does not demonstrate that IDF requires memberships to have outstanding achievements, as judged by 
national or international experts in the field. 4 For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
4 Although the Petitioner addressed the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) in his response to the Director's 
RFE, he did not address or submit any supplementary evidence related to his membership in IDF. 
6 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's wvork in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In evaluating evidence submitted under this criterion, USCIS first determines whether the published 
material relates to the person and their work in the field for which classification is sought. Evidence 
may include print or online newspaper or magazine articles or transcripts of audio or video coverage of 
the person and the person's work, and must include the required title, date, author and any necessary 
translation. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). Second, we evaluate whether a 
publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media. Relevant factors 
include the intended audience of the publication (for professional and major trade publications) and the 
relative circulation, readership or viewership (for major trade publications or other major media. Id. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included nine exhibits in support of this criterion. This evidence 
included three magazine articles from the print editions of Caras, Gente and Longway; four online 
articles including one from the IDF website and three from the website Rock N Board 
(www.rocknboard.com); and screenshots and transcripts from two video interviews that appeared on 
the television channels Canal de la Ciudad Abierta and Ciudad Magazine. 
In the RFE, the Director advised that the submitted evidence did not meet the requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), noting that some articles were missing required information such as the names of 
authors and/or the dates of publication. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted 
general background and historical information for some of the publications but advised that he did not 
submit sufficient corroborating information, such as relative or comparative circulation statistics or 
information about the intended audience, to demonstrate that the articles or interviews were published 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The RFE emphasized that evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion should be specific to the media format in which it was published, 
noting that if an article was published in print, evidence relating to circulation or readership should 
relate to the printed publication. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner solely addressed the published materials from Caras and Gente 
magazines, and his interview on Ciudad Magazine, which is described as a "subscription TV channel" 
in Argentina. 5 In the decision, the Director stated the Petitioner met this criterion based on evidence that 
he was interviewed in "major media outlets in 2012 and 2023" but did not specify which published 
materials were deemed to satisfy the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For the reasons 
provided below, we will withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. 
With respect to the article published in Caras magazine in 2023, the record reflects that the article is 
about the Petitioner and relates to his work in the field. The Petitioner submitted a Wikipedia article 
with background information about this publication, and evidence relating to the publication's social 
5 The Petitioner did not contest the Director's determination that the initial evidence was insufficient to demonstrate that 
the articles or interviews appearing in Longway magazine, the IDF website, Rock N Board, and Canal de la Ciudad Abierta, 
did not satisfy all elements of this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we will not address this evidence further. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed all evidence submitted in support ofthis criterion and agree that the initial evidence related 
to these six published materials did not meet all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
7 
media presence. 6 However, he did not submit objective evidence, such as relative circulation data for 
the print edition of the magazine from a reliable independent source, to demonstrate that it qualifies 
as a major media publication in the country ofpublication. Further, the evidence did not establish that 
the magazine, described as a "celebrity and women's magazine," is a professional or major trade 
publication based on its intended audience. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from an executive director at Editorial Perfil, 
the publisher of Caras. The letter states that Caras is "one of the most widely read and circulated 
publications in Argentina," reaching 30,000 readers per printed magazine. 7 The Petitioner also provided 
the magazine's "digital metrics" sourced from Google Analytics. However, the record lacks evidence 
of the relative circulation statistics for the print edition of Caras magazine compared to other similar 
publications and therefore does not demonstrate that the magazine qualifies as major media based on 
such statistics. The submitted digital metrics and social media data are insufficient to support the 
publisher's claim that the print edition magazine is "one ofthe most widely ... circulated" in Argentina. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included an article about him published in the I 2023 print 
edition of Gente, a monthly magazine published in Argentina. The Petitioner also submitted a 
Wikipedia article about the magazine's background and history, evidence regarding its following on 
social media, and web traffic statistics published by the website Semrush (www.semrnsh.com). 
According to these statistics, the magazine's website, www.revistagente.com, had a country rank of 
1,467 as of December 2023 and a global rank of 86,550. The Petitioner did not provide comparative 
circulation statistics for the magazine's print edition or evidence that the article about him was 
published on the magazine's website. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter Gente's publisher, Grnpo Atlantida, which 
states that the magazine is "one of the most recognized Argentinian entertainment magazines" with 
"an average audience of 80,000 readers per printed edition." The RFE response also included excerpts 
from the publisher's media kit which highlight Gente magazine's online presence and social media 
following. However, the RFE response did not include relative circulation data for the magazine's 
print edition and therefore did not establish that it qualifies as major media based on its comparative 
circulation. 
Finally, with respect to the Petitioner's interview on the television channel Ciudad Magazine, the 
Petitioner submitted screenshots from Y ouTube and a transcript of his interview on the program 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a Wikipedia article with 
background information regarding this Ciudad Magazine and screenshots from the channel's social 
media pages. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the creative producer of 
which describes this program as a "renowned" morning show that is a "prominent source 
ofentertainment and information for the local audience." According to the letter, the Ciudad Magazine 
channel reaches an average of 300,000 viewer per day, while I I averages 3.0 ratings points 
on television and reaches "a current audience of 5 million visitors adding all platforms." However, 
the record did not include supporting evidence regarding the program's relative rankings and 
6 As there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from 
Wikipedia will be accorded minimal evidentiary weight. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
7 The letter also lists international circulation figures for the magazine, but those figures appear to include the magazine's 
Portuguese language version. 
8 I 
viewership compared to other television programs, or evidence to corroborate the figures provided in 
the producer's letter. 8 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the articles about him appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Therefore, we conclude that the did 
not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Summary of Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner claimed that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). The 
record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). However, for the reasons discussed, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards or prizes and that he has been the subject of published materials 
in major media, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii). Further, the record supports the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Therefore, as the Petitioner demonstrated that he met only one of the four criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iv), we need not address and hereby reserve discussion of the remaining claimed 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the 
ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
C. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate and agree with the Director's determination that it does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner indicates that he intends to train and compete as a downhill longboard athlete in the 
United States. Therefore, he must demonstrate that he has achieved sustained national or international 
acclaim as a competitive athlete. As discussed, the Petitioner sufficiently documented his receipt of 
two medals in competitions held in Argentina in 2011 and 2015. While statements in the record, and 
to some extent the submitted media articles, mention his results in competitions and generally 
reference his "global rankings" the record contains limited supporting evidence documenting his 
career as a competitive athlete. For example, the Petitioner's resume indicates that he participated in 
world championship and world cup events held in Argentina, Peru, Czechia, Brazil, Australia, 
Germany, France, and the United States between 2011 and 2015, with finishes as high as fourth place. 
However, the record lacks any primary evidence ofhis results and does not contain sufficient evidence 
8 The submitted screenshot from the Petitioner's interview, published on Ciudad Magazine's YouTube channeL shows that 
the channel has 218,000 subscribers and that thel 2023 episode of on which he appeared 
was viewed on YouTube approximately 19,300 times at the time the screenshot was printed. 
9 
to support claims that he achieved and sustained a high ranking among athletes in his sport based on 
his performance in national or international competition. 
Further, we emphasize that even if the record supported a determination that the Petitioner achieved a 
high ranking in the sport in the past, we note that the Petitioner has not indicated or documented his 
participation as a competitor in any downhill longboard event since 2015, nine years prior to the filing 
of the petition. The Petitioner nevertheless claims he has achieved sustained recognition for both his 
earlier achievements in the sport, and his ongoing contributions to its development. The record 
demonstrates that the Petitioner won at least two medals early in his career, was granted membership 
in two associations in his sport, has received some media attention, and has judged two competitions, 
but has not shown "through extensive documentation" that he has achieved sustained national or 
international recognition for his achievements. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
According to media articles and reference letters, the Petitioner gained recognition as one of the first 
Argentine downhill long boarders to participate in international competitions starting in 2011 and has 
inspired other athletes in his country. The record also highlights his reputation as an "ambassador" of 
the sport for Argentina, a recognition he received based on his early participation in world cup events, 
but also based on his contributions to organizing events in Argentina, active involvement in the AAL, 
and his service as a judge for downhill longboard competitions held in his home country. The 
Petitioner's resume highlights that he has provided "technical and logistical support" for the AAL, 
participated in designing a longboard track in Buenos Aires, assisted in the planning world tours for 
other Argentine athletes, participated in sports clinics, and consulted with South American longboard 
companies on product development. The record reflects that the Petitioner has remained active in the 
promotion and development of the sport in Argentina and is recognized within the Argentine 
longboarding community for his dedication and past achievements. However, as noted, the Petitioner 
has not documented his participation in or results from any competitions in his sport since 2015. The 
record does not demonstrate that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim based his 
past athletic achievements, such that he is currently recognized as being among the top athletes in the 
sport. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the record 
does not demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2024 In Re: 35432503 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineering executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the 
Petitioner's appeal, and the matter is now before us on a service motion to reopen pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(5) .1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
1 Following the issuance of our decision, we issued a service motion reopening the application pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.S(a)(S)(ii) and requesting additional evidence in support of the Petitioner 's eligibility . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
The Petitioner claims to be an expert in drilling engineering , with specific emphasis on well 
completion for oil and gas exploration and production. He intends to continue his work in this field 
in the United States. Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing the Petitioner 's appeal, we affirmed the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner had not established that he meets the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
In September 2024, we reopened the matter on a service motion and allowed the Petitioner to 
supplement the record with assertions or evidence in support of his claimed eligibility. The Petitioner 
submitted a brief and additional evidence in response to our service motion. 
III. ANALYSIS 
In our previous decision, incorporated herein, we agreed with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner met the plain language requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to leading or critical 
role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix). We further agreed 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner had not met the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) related to membership s (ii), published materials (iii), judging (iv), and original 
2 
contributions (v). We further declined to consider the Petitioner's initial assertion that he also met the 
authorship criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), as he did not raise this issue on appeal.2 
Upon review of the Petitioner's submissions in response to our service motion, the evidence 
demonstrates his service as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). As the Petitioner therefore meets the requirements of at least three 
criteria and has satisfied the initial evidence requirements, we will consider all the evidence of record 
when conducting the final merits determination. 
Below, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that 
they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 3 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner, an executive in the energy industry, holds a bachelor's degree m mechanical 
engineering from thel Ias 
well as a master's degree in financial management from I I 
I I He began his career in India in 1981 working in drilling operations where he coordinated 
drilling rigs on offshore projects, and oversaw one of the first horizontal drilling projects in India in 
1987. Over the years, he held numerous engineering and managerial positions for companies within 
the energy field. At the time offiling, he was employed as the executive vice president of completions 
for a Texas company focused on manufacturing specialized oil and gas 
components such as eliminators, igniters, power charges, and setting tools. 
During his career, the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for various organizations, judged 
others in the field, and commanded a high salary for his work. He also served as a board member for 
a drilling engineers association, had his work acknowledged in technical publications, and made 
notable contributions to his field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his personal and 
professional achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has held high-ranking positions in the energy industry for 
various I I companies in addition to his current position as executive vice president of 
completions for ________ While the Petitioner established that he has held leading 
2 An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter 
ofR A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). The Petitioner also clarified that his claim to meet this criterion had 
been submitted in error. 
3 Meeting the initial criteria, however, does not establish a presumption of eligibility. The purpose of the final merits 
determination is to evaluate the quality of the evidence submitted to meet the criteria and to determine whether the record, 
as a whole, supports approval of the petition. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
roles in organizations with a distinguished reputation, the record does not demonstrate how this has 
led to sustained national or international acclaim or placed him at the very top of his field. 
The record contains letters from numerous I I executives commending the Petitioner's work and 
accomplishments for the company.4 For example, a letter froml ICEO ofl I 
congratulated the Petitioner on his progress on safety in the company's Canada business unit and 
expressed his satisfaction with the progress made in drilling performance. I I president 
of acknowledged in an email message the Petitioner's achievement of one 
year without recordable safety incidents in 2016 as a result of policy changes he implemented. 
______ vice president of health, safety and environment, similarly acknowledged the 
Petitioner's achievement of one year of incident-free drilling operations at various locations due to his 
safety and performance improvements. Generally, the letters attest to the Petitioner's internal 
leadership in shaping accountabilities in health and safety, which is deemed crucial to the company's 
operations. While this demonstrates that the Petitioner held leading and critical roles within the 
I !organization, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's role in ensuring these health 
and safety procedures is commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
With respect to the Petitioner's original contributions in the field, he submitted testimonial letters from 
former colleagues at I Ias well as opinion letters in support of his assertion that he is an expert 
in the industry. A letter from I I a general manager of strategy and training atl I 
noted that the Petitioner "was able to reduce safety incidents to zero during his tenure" by 
implementing novel accountability measures, "improved drilling efficiency in Venezuela and 
Argentina" and "implemented programs to improve organizational capabilities and to prepare the 
workforce to take on challenging technical and management assignments across the world." 
I I who served as the Petitioner's supervisor when he worked for the company in Canada, 
again affirmed the Petitioner's history of success in minimizing safety incidents, noting that during 
his first year running drilling and completions, the Petitioner "reduced the number of [safety] incidents 
from 13 to zero" through changes he implemented in agreements with service providers . 
___ stated that as a team leader for rock mechanics, the Petitioner's leadership on the team's 
projects "helped to reduce risks related to uncertainties in subsurface rock mechanics, ultimately 
reducing the company's capital expenditure on drilling and completions" and also discussed process 
improvements and drilling efficiencies implemented by the Petitioner, stating that he was involved in 
the development of "unique assurance program for well control." I II I vice president and global account director for I I also recounted the Petitioner's 
process improvements and drilling efficiencies, claiming that the Petitioner's "overarching 
accomplishment has been to deliver large drilling projects around the world effectively, timely, under 
budget, and perhaps most importantly, safely," and that his "innovative approach was unique in my 
experience, and rarely is this level of collaboration found in the oilfield." Similarly,! J 
a retired general manager for a I I business venture in Argentina, recounted working with the 
Petitioner over the course of his career and reiterated the Petitioner's accomplishments in drilling 
efficiencies as well as cost and safety improvements. I I president and CEO of 
4 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
stated that the Petitioner's drilling initiatives "saved I lover $1 million 
USD per well in completion costs" and that the Petitioner "has shown initiative to create a safer and 
more compliant workspace for his colleagues and his professionalism is at the highest level I have 
seen." 
While these letters from the Petitioner's former colleagues at I I highlight the importance and 
value ofthe Petitioner's contributions to safety and drilling protocols and efficiencies, and attest to the 
novelty and utility of the Petitioner's contributions and innovations, they do not establish that his 
contributions have been recognized at a level that elevates him to the top of his field or that they have 
resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim. It is generally expected that one whose 
accomplishments have garnered sustained national or international acclaim would have received 
recognition for their accomplishments well beyond the circle of their personal and professional 
acquaintances. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. Although the letters from the Petitioner's former colleagues reflect the novelty of his work, 
they do not sufficiently articulate how his safety and drilling efficiencies have been considered of such 
importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level of major significance required by this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted an opinion letter from I I general counsel for ____ 
who summarized the above declarations of the Petitioner's I I colleagues and concluded that, 
based on his "over 30 years of legal and merger acquisition expertise in the energy industry," the 
Petitioner has made "business contributions of major significance in the field." Again, while we 
acknowledge the Petitioner's innovations in safety and drilling efficiencies, the record does not show 
how the Petitioner's work has been widely implemented or has otherwise impacted the field of oil and 
gas or fields directly related to advancements in drilling engineering methodologies, and therefore 
falls short of demonstrating that his achievements have been recognized in the field or that his level 
of expertise places him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. While the letters from 
hisl Icolleagues commend the Petitioner's skills and knowledge, they do not state the specific 
ways in which his work has received national or international recognition. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated how his work for his employers sets him apart from others or how his roles reflected or 
resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim in the field. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his contributions are of major significance to the field or that such contributions 
resulted in the Petitioner "having achieved sustained acclaim as one of the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 
The record also contains a letter from President and COO of II I Mr. I I who stated that he worked closely with the Petitioner through his 
company's contract association withl Ipraised his "novel technical limits concept approach to 
rig contracts." He further claimed that this approach facilitated a collaborative platform between oil 
and gas companies and drilling contractors, thus resulting in a "win-win" situation for both companies 
that resulted in efficiencies and cost savings. However, Mr.I ldid not sufficiently detail in what 
ways the Petitioner's innovations have earned him national or international acclaim. While he 
generally claims that the Petitioner's technical limits concept helped provide cost-driven solutions to 
oil and gas companies, the record does not show that these innovations have earned him national or 
international acclaim in his field or show that he is at the top of his field. 
5 
In response to our service motion, the Petitioner asserts that the Petitioner's contributions to the field 
have "mitigated the risk of major compromise and accidents in oil and gas exploration and production 
activities," and claims that the submitted letters from industry experts have meticulously described his 
contributions and were erroneously disregarded. The Petitioner also submits additional evidence to 
further support this assertion, including an opinion letter from an economist, as well 
as numerous articles and publications discussing the importance of safety measures and protocols in 
the oil and gas industry. 
Mr. I I provides an "economic impact analysis" of the Petitioner, and states that he has 
performed a "qualitative evaluation of [the Petitioner's] economic contributions to the United States 
using generally accepted econometric methodologies." According to Mr. I Ia review of the 
Petitioner's taxable income using the INPLAN, an econometric software program, reveals that 64 
non-direct jobs were created in the United States based on his remuneration, and additionally generated 
$1.7 million in federal taxes. Mr. I I concludes that these jobs constitute significant 
contributions to the national economy based on their productivity, and further stimulate substantial 
amounts of taxes. Although the Petitioner's remuneration may have indirectly contributed to the 
creation of jobs and the generation of taxes, Mr. I Ianalysis does not sufficiently support a 
finding that the Petitioner's "economic impact" rises to the level of national or international acclaim 
or that he has risen to the very top of his field as a result of this claimed impact. 
In response to the service motion, the Petitioner also submits articles and reports regarding the 
importance of safety measures in the industry and emphasizes that the oil and gas industry "is known 
for its high risks and volatility" and that "safety is the actual prerequisite to the stability and prosperity 
of the oil and gas industry." The Petitioner asserts that the safety measures he implemented 
demonstrate his quantifiable economic impact and the positive economic effects that have resulted 
from his innovations. While we acknowledge the importance of safety protocols in the oil and gas 
industry and the Petitioner's contributions to such protocols over the course ofhis career, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his contributions were reflective of, or resulted in, widespread acclaim from 
his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not establish that he garnered acclaim or extensive recognition from 
the field based on his contributions to safety protocols in the oil and gas industry, representing 
sustained national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
The Petitioner submitted technical publications and asserted that they contained "advancements and 
findings made by [his] team of top-level researchers and scientists." The Petitioner also submitted 
copies of papers which he asserted were written by his team members and presented at conferences. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertions that the technical publications and papers contain 
information about advances in his field as put forth by his team, the submitted documentation does not 
discuss the merits of the Petitioner's work, his standing in the field, any significant impact that his work 
has had on the field, or any other information to show that these advancements and findings received 
significant attention such that they are commensurate with those among the top of his field. 
The Petitioner also highlights his position as a board member for the American Association of Drilling 
Engineers (AADE) and the fact that he served on the steering committee of the association's Emerging 
Technology Group from September 2006 to December 2008. The Petitioner claims that membership in 
6 
AADE and its steering committees is comprised of "professional members ... who represent the top of 
their professions." Although the record reflects that the Petitioner's board position and membership on 
the AADE's steering committee is notable in that it is "based on merit and industry experience," the 
record does not demonstrate that board positions or steering committee membership is reserved only for 
those AADE members who have achieved acclaim at the national or international level or is otherwise 
indicative of their standing at the very top of the field. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner presented evidence showing that as a member of I I Global Drilling and 
Completions Leadership Team and Personal Development Committee, "he reviewed the work of the 
entire Drilling and Completions workforce around the world (totaling thousands of members)." The 
Petitioner further asserted that he conducted performance reviews of the teams in the regions where 
he served as a manager, conducted annual performance appraisals, hired new employees, and selected 
individuals for promotion. 
Additionally, the Petitioner presented evidence that he oversaw and judged the work of his 
subordinates on the 19-member Rock Mechanics Team, nominated a subordinate as a I !Fellow, 
and indicated that as executive vice president of completions for I Ihe is 
currently "responsible for judging the work of others on a regular basis, as he constantly reviews the 
work of other engineers to promote a safer and more streamlined environment for the company and 
its customers." 
The Petitioner did not establish that the nature of these evaluations contribute to a finding that he has 
a career of acclaimed work in the field or are indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did 
not show, for example, how his experience in evaluating subordinate engineers compares to others at 
the very top of the field. Similarly, the record does not show that the Petitioner has received any 
international recognition for conducting these evaluations. Without this or other evidence 
differentiating him from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of 
reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed engineers or experts in his field, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although the record reflects the Petitioner's earned income in various positions between 2013 
to 2022, the record does not establish that he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show 
that his wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention 
based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The Petitioner has not provided information that establishes his earnings are reflective "of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
7 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and immigration Services (USCIS) has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, although the Petitioner has shown that he intends 
to continue working in his area of expertise and his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States, he has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. 0-1 NONIMMIGRANT STATUS 
The record reflects the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of 
extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed 
on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant 
visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. 
See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41(2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
V. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20629011 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish, as required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one 
of that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a professional soccer player in Brazil and ____ 
I lfrom 1993 until 2009, when he transitioned to coaching. The Petitioner initially held coaching 
roles with la professional team in Trinidad and Tobago, and has coached 
youth soccer teams since 2015. At the time of filing in August 2020, he was employed as the head 
soccer coach for the Under 14 (U14) and Under 12 (U12) teams for I in I I California. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet up to seven of the 
ten criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met four of the evidentiary criteria and therefore 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner submitted evidence of published material about him and relating to his work as an 
athlete and coach; evidence that he had participated as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
evidence that he had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, and evidence that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. See 8 
C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii) and (ix). We will not disturb the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
The Director further determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he could meet 
three additional criteria, including lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 
2 
204.5(h)(3)(i), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), 1 and original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Nevertheless, because the Director determined that the Petitioner met at least three of the regulatory 
criteria, he proceeded to a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Director, noting a lack of recent evidence in the record, determined that the Petitioner had attained 
significant successes and achievements as a soccer player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago resulting 
in national acclaim in the past, but did not demonstrate that he had sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is among the small percentage of soccer coaches at the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to raise the issue of sustained acclaim in 
the request for evidence (RFE) issued prior to the denial of the petition and therefore improperly based 
the denial on a lack of such evidence. We observe that the RFE included the following statement: 
"Any evidence submitted in response to this request should also articulate how the record establishes 
that the beneficiary possesses the required high level of expertise for the El 1 immigration 
classification." The Director emphasized that establishing this "high level of expertise" requires 
evidence that the Petitioner possesses sustained national or international acclaim, noting that acclaim 
must be maintained and that a petitioner "may have achieved extraordinary ability in the past but then 
failed to maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter." Therefore, we find that the RFE informed 
the Petitioner that he must not only submit evidence that satisfies at least three of the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), but also demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
that places him among the small percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director overlooked evidence relating to his most recent 
achievements as a coach and submits supplemental evidence in support of the appeal, including 
evidence that post-dates the filing of the petition. While we will address this newly submitted 
evidence, we emphasize that the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Upon review, and for the reasons discussed below, we agree 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this highly 
restrictive classification. 
1 While the Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), he did not pursue that 
claim in his response to the Director's request for evidence. 
3 
As noted, the Petitioner is a soccer coach who began his career as a rofessional soccer player in 
Brazil. According to the Petitioner's resume, he la ed for from 1993 to 1997 
and for three different Brazilian teams andl I I Jin 1998 and 1999. He indicates that his play ____ "was pivotal in bringing 
thel I championship to the I in 1995." The record reflects that the Petitioner left 
Brazil in 2000 after being recruited by the Trinidad and Tobago Football Association (TTF A) and 
I l which competes in the Trinidad and Tobago 
Professional League (TT Pro League). The Petitioner played with I I from 2000 to 
2006 and 2007 to 2009, during which time he received several team-issued awards includingl I I (2000, 2001),I (2003), andl 1(2005). In 2013, 
he was one of several recipients of thel I "Lifetime Achievement Award" for his 
contributions to the team as a player and member of the coaching staff. In 12005, 
he played in six international matches with the Trinidad and Tobago _______ 
According to a letter from CEO of I I the Petitioner 
immediately transitioned to coaching at the end of his playing career. Specificallyj I states 
that the Petitioner was an assistant coach of the team from 2009 until team from 
2015, while also functioning as the head coach for the 
this same period. 2 From 2015 to 2017, the Petitioner served as 
Football Academ in Trinidad and Tobago, before moving to to to work for _ 
as Head Soccer Coach for its Ul4 and U12 teams in 2018. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that the ________ team was particularly successful during his tenure as an 
assistant coach in 2013 and 2014 when they were TT Pro I I andl I 
Winners. His training and credentials as a coach include a U.S. Soccer Federation E License, a 
National Soccer Coaches Association of America Level 1 Diploma, a two-week coaching internship 
at La Masia Academy in Spain, and completion of a Youth Coaching Training Course. The Petitioner 
states that he has coached four players who went on to play for the ________ National 
Team, two of whom have also played for U.S. Major League Soccer teams. 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner established that he received media coverage in Trinidad and 
Tobago during his playing and coaching career there, that he has commanded a high salary, that he 
has had responsibility for judging the work of others in the field, and that he served in a leading or 
critical role forl ]which enjoys a distinguished reputation in the sport in Trinidad and 
Tobago. At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). Here, the record does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective 
of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published materials, the Petitioner submitted more than 30 articles published by Trinidad 
and Tobago publications, including national newspapers Trinidad Guardian, Newsday, and Trinidad 
2 While the record documents the Petitioner's coaching roles withl I we note that the Petitioner indicates 
in his resume and in his own personal statement in support of the petition that he served in these coaching roles withO I from 2013 to 2015 (rather than from 2009 to 2013), and that his "first coaching assignment" was as a Head 
Soccer Coach for "Under I I-Under 16" with I a public secondary school in Trinidad and Tobago, from 
2012 to 2013. 
4 
Express. Many of the submitted articles are dated between 2004 and I I 2005 and 
are about the Petitioner's efforts to obtain to play on its 
national team in qualifying matches for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. The evidence from this period 
reflects significant media interest in the Petitioner, including feature articles lauding his skills as a 
player, frequent coverage of his training with the national team, and articles about the matches he 
ultimately played with the team in international competition. For example, al I 2004, 
article published by Express states that the Petitioner "has helped! to twol I and and has been one of the most in in the [TT Pro League] over the last five 
years." This evidence indicates that he enjoyed national acclaim as an athlete at the time and was 
regarded as a key player forl I which is further evidenced by the team awards he 
received for his performance between 2000 and 2005. In addition, articles published by the Trinidad 
Guardian and the website of the TT Pro Lea ue mention that the Petitioner was among "former 
top performers and captains" of who were selected to receive "Lifetime 
Achievement Awards" from at the team'sl I awards ceremony. 
The Petitioner also submitted seven articles relating to his career as a coach, but unlike the articles 
discussed above, he was not specifically featured in any of these materials. A Newsday article from 
I 2009 titled mentions the Petitioner's transition to 
coaching in passing, noting that he would not be at the start of the season but would "join the 
technical staff as an assistant coach" for th team. A 2009 Guardian 
article titled also mentions the Petitioner as one of two 
new assistant coaches of , bbut the article is a feature story about another member of 
the team's coachin staff. The Petitioner also submitted two 2012 articles from Daily Express which 
cover the and briefly mention the 
Petitioner's role as head coach of the _____ team. Further, the Petitioner submitted three 
articles from 2014 which mention his role as coach of the team. 
Two of the articles are about the results of this team's matches and sim 1 identif the Petitioner as 
the team's coach, while the remaining 2014 article, titled is about 
______ and national team playerl The article mentions tha _ during a 
recent break in playing due to medical issues, served as assistant coach to the Petitioner with the club's I jteam. 
While the record reflects some ongoing media coverage of the Petitioner's career in Trinidad and 
Tobago following his transition to coaching in 2009, the number of articles and the nature of the 
coverage does not reflect the level of acclaim he enjoyed during the height of his career as an athlete 
playing for a professional team and in international competition. Regardless, even if we concluded 
that the Petitioner achieved national acclaim as both a player and a coach in Trinidad and Tobago 
based on the submitted published materials, the Director correctly observed that the record contained 
no articles dated after September 2014, which was nearly six years prior to the filing of the petition. 
Therefore, the published materials evidence does not support a determination the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained national acclaim as a soccer coach that places him among "that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that, notwithstanding the lack ofrecent media coverage of his career, 
he submitted other, more recent evidence which establishes his sustained acclaim as a coach that the 
Director failed to consider. He emphasizes that the evidence must be considered in its totality in order 
5 
to determine whether he has the sustained acclaim required under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
Specifically, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not give proper weight to evidence of his 
recent judging activities in the final merits determination. 
In addressing the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge, the Director observed that he 
relied on letters of recommendation detailing his roles and responsibilities as a coach and assistant 
coach. He specifically referenced a letter froml I CEO of _____ who 
stated that the Petitioner had input on the decision-making process regarding coaching assignments 
for the club' sl I teams. The Director determined that while the 
Petitioner had judged the work of others, his judging activities "took place as part of his job 
responsibilities" and were performed "with the organization for which he previously played." The 
Director concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner was specifically invited to serve 
as a judge of others based on his acclaim as a coach or that his judging activities garnered him national 
or international acclaim or recognition. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his 
experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. Therefore, the 
Director did not err by considering the nature of the Petitioner's judging activities and noting that he 
performed internal judging activities as part of his job responsibilities for his employer. 3 However, 
we agree with the Petitioner that the submitted evidence demonstrates that he participated as a judge 
for organizations other than and not solely as part of his coaching responsibilities 
for this club. 
A letter fro ml lof TTF A confirms that the Petitioner was invited by 
"to judge the performances of the players seeking to make the selection for the Team of 
Trinidad & Tobago that would participate in the FIF A lw orld Cup." ___ indicates 
that these activities took place in Trinidad in 2019, 2019, where the Petitioner designed drills for the 
40 prospective players and assisted in the selection of 26 players to participate in a two-year World 
Cup training program. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional letter froml I head coach and technical 
director lwho confirms that the TTF A invited the Petitioner to participate in the I 
I I selection activities described byl I He also indicates that, even after the 
Petitioner left the staff ofl I he was invited by the team's board of directors to judge 
the players' performance (in conjunction with the technical staff) to select the best starting team for 
TT Pro League competition in the 2016 to 2018 seasons. 
Therefore, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he was invited to participate in judging the 
work of others and did not solely perform these duties in the context of his responsibilities as a coach 
for his employer. We also acknowledge that he participated in these activities as recently as 2019. 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner maintains a relationship with thel coaching 
staff, that he has had one invitation from TTF A to participate in team selection, and that these 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.4(B)(2) (stating that as part of the final merits determination, the quality of the evidence 
should also be considered, such as whether a petitioner's judging responsibilities were internal). 
6 
organizations value his input as a judge of athletic and coaching abilities. However, the Petitioner did 
not establish how the recent judging activities documented in the record place him among the small 
percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others at the top of the field or demonstrate how his 
judging activities have either resulted from or contributed to his sustained national or international 
acclaim. Further, the regulations require that the Petitioner provide "extensive documentation" to 
show that his achievements have been recognized in the field. The Director found that the Petitioner 
had little or no evidence of such recognition in the five years preceding the filing of the petition; his 
submission of more recent evidence of his participation in judging activities does not automatically 
meet this high standard or demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim as a 
coach. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that he served in a leading or critical role as a 
player and coach with the ______ organization, and that the team enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. The Director also concluded that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he had 
commanded a high salary in relation to others as a player with this organization (based on his 2006 
contract) and as a coach, from 2013 to 2015. However, the Director emphasized that the Petitioner's 
tenure with I ended in 2015 and the record did not establish that he had commanded 
a high salary or held leading or critical roles with another organization that has a distinguished 
reputation since that time. As such, the Director concluded that the record lacked recent evidence that 
would demonstrate the Petitioner's national acclaim had been sustained. 
On a eal the Petitioner maintains that he served in a leading or critical role for both 
from 2018 until 2020, and that he has served in a leading or critical role for 
since February 2021. He also submits evidence intended to establish that he currently earns a 
high salary as a head coach and director of I ]which is described by its Executive Director 
"one of the premier clubs in thel with over 14 teams and 200 student athletes. 
The evidence submitted on appeal includes a letter fromDPresidentl land additional 
information about from various websites. We do not doubt that the Petitioner had a leading or 
critical role as a head coach with this organization. However, even ifwe determined that enjoys 
a distinguished reputation among youth soccer clubs inl I California where it operates, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field 
based on his coaching role with a regional youth soccer club. The same is true with respect to the 
evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's leading or critical role withl , a a youth 
soccer club in California that he joined six months after the filing of this petition. 4 It is evident that 
these two U.S. organizations value the Petitioner's years of expertise in the sport and regard him as a 
highly effective coach who has positively impacted both individual and team performance for their 
respective clubs. However, the record does not demonstrate that he has achieved or sustained a level 
of acclaim in these roles that is comparable to the level of national acclaim he achieved during his 
time as a player and coach withl I or a level of acclaim that places him at the top of 
the field among soccer coaches. 
4 As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied 
from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
The record is similarly lacking evidence that the Petitioner commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for his services as a soccer coach between his departure from the I coaching staff in 2015 and the filing of this petition in 2020. On appeal, the Petitioner 
has supplemented the record with evidence intended to establish that he has commanded a high salary 
withl !compared to other youth soccer coaches in the United States. As noted, the 
Petitioner did not join this organization until six months after he filed this petition. Further, while his 
salary with this club (which is slightly above the 90th percentile nationwide according to the one 
source submitted) may demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the field, he 
has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
Therefore, the record supports the Director's conclusion that any national acclaim the Petitioner 
achieved as a member of the coaching staff of a professional team in Trinidad and Tobago has not 
been sustained since he left the team and moved on to youth coaching roles in the five years preceding 
the filing of the petition. 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claims that he has made contributions to coaching through 
the development and implementation of training methods and through the success of individual players 
he has coached. A letter from I I assistant coach ofthel I team of Trinidad 
and Tobago, states that the Petitioner has developed training drills designed to develop players' agility 
and coordination. He states that the Petitioner's "methodology and style of coaching is revolutionary" 
and continues to be used in coaching Trinidad and Tobago's national team. In his own statement, the 
Petitioner referenced his publication I I and indicated that it is a manual "used in 
every practice through the [Trinidad & Tobago Professional] league." However, he concedes that 
"there are no records of it" being incorporated by the league, noting that "most likely, it has been 
photocopied and passed along to coaches and teams." The record contains a copy of a seven-page 
document illustrating a soccer I and bearing the seal of thel I I I Even if we concluded that the Petitioner developed a training drill or methodology that is in 
widespread use in Trinidad and Tobago, he states that he has not been widely acknowledged for such 
contribution and the record does not support a determination that this largely uncredited contribution 
has garnered him national or international acclaim or recognition in the field of soccer coaching. 
Other testimonial evidence in the record identifies specific players who were coached by the Petitioner 
during their careers and who have gone on to play on collegiate, professional or national teams. While 
such evidence supports a determination that the Petitioner is a talented and successful coach, there is 
insufficient objective evidence to establish whether or how the players' achievements contributed to 
the Petitioner's own acclaim and recognition in the field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or those who achieved, 
but did not maintain, the required national or international acclaim. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was an acclaimed professional 
soccer player with a top team in Trinidad and Tobago and possessed the skills to make the successful 
transition to coaching at a high level with his former team's organization. However, the record does 
8 
not establish that any national acclaim he achieved as a player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago has 
been sustained since he leftl in 2015 to pursue other coaching opportunities with 
youth soccer organizations. He did not demonstrate through "extensive documentation" that his work 
in subsequent years has brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a national or international level, 
such that we could conclude that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. As 
such, the record does not indicate he currently has a degree of recognition for his achievements 
consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 pet1t10n, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at 
least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Eligibility as an 0-1 nonimmigrant does not 
automatically establish eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability classification, as each petition is 
separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory 
and regulatory provisions. 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic 
Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11040020 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineer and researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not: (1) specify the nature of his field; (2) submit extensive documentation of his achievements in that 
field; and (3) establish that his entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A note on the petition form advised that submission of an incomplete form may result in denial of the 
petition. Nevertheless, the Petitioner left several parts of the form incomplete. 1 Asked if any immigrant 
visa petition had ever been filed on his behalf: the Petitioner answered "no." U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) records, however, show that the Petitioner filed a petition on his own 
behalf~ seeking the same immigrant classification, in December 2011. The Director of the Texas Service 
Center denied that petition in March 2013. 
The record contains minimal evidence about the Petitioner's background and history. He holds 
bachelor's and master's degrees in pharmaceutical science. On the petition form, he stated his 
intended job title as "Chairman Board of Trustee, Researcher Engineering" (sic) and described his 
intended job as "manufact[ u ]ring patent I I instruments, do research in I I structure 
dete[r]mination." He listed the Standard Occupational Classification codes for materials scientists and 
electrical engineers. 
The Petitioner's initial filing included minimal supporting documentation, including the following: 
• A copy of a transcript from the Petitioner's graduate studies at the University~! ----~I from 
1993 to 1996; 
• The first page of an undated "Letter to the Editor," unsigned but apparently written by the 
Petitioner, describing "the chemical structure of melanin." The document does not identify the 
publication to which it was submitted, nor does it show that the letter was published; 
• A Certificate of Re istration indicatin that the Petitioner holds the co · ht for a book with 
the title 
'-----------~ ; and 
1 One unanswered question was whether the Petitioner is in removal proceedings. USCIS records show that protracted 
removal proceedings involving the Petitioner resulted in an order of removal. 
2 
• Documentation showing that the Petitioner had filed patent applications in 2009, 2011, and 2016. 
The Petitioner has not established, or claimed, that the patent applications were approved. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner did not submit extensive documentation of 
recognition in the field, as the statute requires. The Director also noted that the Petitioner did not complete 
material portions of the petition form. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted materials "fully prove [the Petitioner] has 
extraordinary ability in sciences," because his book revealed a "new e uation to calculat I I number," and the equation's accuracy has been confirmed......._. ______ ~ The Petitioner 
contends that his "new equation has tremandace significances world widely [sic]," but the Petitioner's 
own opinion of the importance of his work is not sufficient to establish sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner indicates that he established the corporation that published his book; he cites no 
evidence of the book's distribution and influence on the field, and no evidence regarding the activity of 
his company. 
The Petitioner cites his patent applications, stating that his "invention introduced significant advances in 
' and related equipment. The Petitioner does not claim that the applications have ~-------~ been approved or the patents have been granted. The filing ( or approval) of a patent application is not, 
by itself: evidence of eligibility for the highly restrictive immigrant classification that the Petitioner seeks. 
Patents and copyrights attest to originality rather than importance or impact. 
The Petitioner asserts that his letter to the editor appeared in Pigment Cell Research in 2004, and "is one 
of the most im ortant research a er s on melanin structure," and that his "new equation is at the top 
level in........_------------.-----.~----' research science." As before, the Petitioner 
does not establish who, other than himself: holds this opinion of his work. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act requires the Petitioner to establish sustained national or international 
acclaim and extensive documentation showing that the Petitioner's achievements have been recognized 
in the field. The six pages of documentation the Petitioner submitted, relating to his work in the field, is 
not extensive, and it consists of his own work rather than evidence of the recognition and acclaim that the 
statute demands. The Petitioner claims to have made landmark advances to his field, but he has not shown 
that others in the field share this view. His opinion of the importance of his own work is not acclaim, and 
it does not show that he has risen to the very top of his field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that his writings and inventions have had a significant, 
measurable impact on his field, or on a national or international level. 
Because the Petitioner has not met the threshold requirements regarding recognition in the field, we 
need not proceed to the separate issue of prospective benefit to the United States. Therefore, we 
reserve that issue. 2 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria; he has not presented any coherent claim in relation 
to the evidentiary requirements. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals recognized as 
being at the top of their respective fields. It cannot suffice simply to demonstrate that one has engaged 
in research and declare that this research amounts to a major advance in the field. Acclaim and 
recognition, by nature, come from others in the field, rather than from one's opinion of the value of 
one's own work. The Petitioner has not provided any indication of how others in his field (however 
that field is defined) have used or responded to his work. Furthermore, the small quantity of evidence 
submitted documents minimal activity over a span of more than a decade. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11971419 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a finance minority business coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification 
through either the receipt of a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner subsequently filed a motion to reconsider, 
asserting that in addition to the two evidentiary criteria which the Director found she met, she also met 
an additional five criteria. The Director granted the motion but found that the Petitioner did not meet 
any of the additional criteria claimed. She now appeals from the Director's decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was a finance executive for many years in her native country, rising to the level of 
Finance Director for the subsidiary of a large multinational corporation. In recent years she has been 
employed as a small business consultant, and states that she intends to offer these services to minority­
owned businesses in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In her decision on motion, the Director found that the Petitioner met the 
same two the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) as in her previous decision, relating 
to her participation as a judge of the work of others and her leading role for an organization having a 
distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets five additional 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that while we disagree 
with the Director in part, the Petitioner has not established her qualification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record includes evidence of the following awards received by the Petitioner: 
I Plaque and letter from the University I I confirming that she earned the highest grade 
point average in her graduating class of economics majors in April 1987. 
2 
I Award of restricted stock units (RSUs) from~----~~~-_..,...as part of the 
Exceptional Contributor Program (ECP) or Long-Term Incentive Program (L TIP) award in 
2009,2011and201.-3_. ________ _,, 
I Certificate from ',__ _________ ___. acknowledging the Petitioner as "the 
reference point of the organization for her "integrity" and "compliance with standards and 
policies," dated November 2010. 
I I !service pins recognizing the Petitioner's employment with the company for 5, 15, 20 
and 25 years. 
In his decision, the Director found that the evidence did not establish that any of these awards were 
natiolnally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor. On appeal, regarding her RSU awards 
from the Petitioner asserts that because the company is a large and well-known multinational 
corporation, her status as one of a "select few" recipients is sufficient to establish her eligibility under 
this criterion. She also refers to letters issued by company officials at the time of the award which 
indicate that the Petitioner was "part of a selected group of people who were recognized for their 
valuable contribution to the corporate results" and that the awards are "based on substantial 
contributions well above the expectations of the Company." This evidence confirms that the RSUs 
were given for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, but does not show that the awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized in the fields of finance or minority business coaching. 
Although they were granted by a large, well-known multinational corporation, there is no record in 
the evidence of recognition of these awards from others in the field of finance. And an email from an 
official of the current! !Company confirms that it does not have "public announcements, 
photos or certificates documenting these awards," making it unlikely that others in the Petitioner's 
field recognized or were even aware of the RSU awards. 
Regarding the other awards froml I the record does not include evidence which shows that the 
certificate the Petitioner received in 2010 and her service pins were awarded for excellence in her 
field, as opposed to satisfactory job performance and number of years of employment, respectively. 
Finally, the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner was recognized by the University ~I---~ 
as having achieved the highest grade point average in her graduating class in economics, and an article 
in what appears to be a local newspaper covered the graduation ceremony and documents the 
Petitioner's speech on behalf of the class. Although this award shows that the Petitioner excelled 
academically, it does not establish that she was recognized for excellence in the fields of finance or 
business coaching. In addition, the single article which does not explicitly mention her award is not 
sufficient to demonstrate that it was recognized at the national or international level. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion upon her membership in three1 associations: 
I Controllers of I I G.-ro_u....__ ____ _, 
I Economists Association of 
I The,___ ______ __.Chamber of Commerce and Industry d.._ ____ ___.,D 
As evidence of membership in the Controllers of I I Group, the Petitioner submitted a letter 
from a branch manager forl I an insurance company which counted I I I I as one of its clients. The branch mana er, who states that he worked with 
the Petitioner for more than 20 years, indicates that coordinated lunch meet
1ings of I 
comptrollers from companies in the state '------~ and that the Petitioner represented I lat these lunch meetings. In addition, a brief paragraph and photographs from what appears 
to be a local newspaper's account on an online photo-sharing platform describes a meeting of this 
group in 2012, but does not mention the Petitioner. 
We first note that the evidence indicates that these meetings were an informal gathering of I I I !clients, and does not establish the existence of an association in the field of finance or 
business coaching. The name of the asserted association, "Controllers o~ I Group," does not 
appear in either document, nor is there any official documentation, such as a membership card or 
certificate, that she was a member of such a group. Further, even assuming that such evidence was 
present, the record also does not include evidence that this group required outstanding achievements 
of its members. Both documents indicate that this was a meeting of comptrollers from companies in 
the I larea, but there is no other evidence regarding how the members were selected or invited 
to attend. We will not assume, without evidence to support such an assertion, that the status of being 
a comptroller meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Turning next to the Petitioner's membership in the Economists Association ofl I she 
submitted a certification stating that she has been an active member since 1988. The certification also 
adds that she has complied with all of the association's requirements and paid all dues. In his previous 
decision, the Director noted that Article 6 of the bylaws and rules of this association states that active 
members "are those professionals referred to in Article 18 of the Economist's Profession Practice Law, 
who request their registration and are admitted ... " and found that this evidence did not show a 
requirement for outstanding achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges this, but asserts 
that the document "establishes that all potential member candidates must be reviewed and approved 
by the School's Board of Directors which are all Economists." However, the Petitioner does not refer 
1 The Petitioner also submitted evidence regarding her membership in The Professional Association of Business Credit 
(APOCRE), but does not challenge the Director's decision regarding this association on appeal. We therefore consider this 
claim to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
4 
to a specific article in the bylaws which includes this requirement, nor has it been established that the 
board members are recognized national or international experts. In addition, this assertion does not 
address the Director's finding that the bylaws do not indicate that aspiring members should have any 
achievements beyond being active economists. Therefore, the Petitioner's membership in this 
association does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership inl I she asserts on appeal that her membership 
on the Corporate Finance committee of this association qualifies under this criterion. The Petitioner 
submitted a copy of an email from the association welcoming her to the Corporate Finance and Capital 
Market committee, which states that the committee's goal is to offer updated information and focuses 
on gathering company leaders into work groups. In a document titled "Rules of the Work and Services 
Committees," it is stated that members of committees should be nominated by the key contact of the I !enterprise member, and that the candidate's curriculum vitae and other documents 
are sent to the committee president for review. Another document, which appears to be from the 
association's website but does not include the webpage address, states that the committees "bring 
together professional executives of different positions," and indicates that the Corporate Finance and 
Capital Markets committee is "formed by 103 members that work as General Managers and Finance 
Directors" for member companies. It goes on to state that each member company may appoint up to 
two executives to participate in each committee. A third document, titled "Requirements and Profile 
of Executives in Order to Join the Committees," repeats the requirements noted above, and adds that 
the member of the Corporate Finance committee should occupy "the highest position of your 
company" in that functional area. 
This evidence shows that the membership rules of I ts Corporate Finance and Capital 
Markets committee requires a candidate to have reached a certain level of professional achievement, 
namely the highest finance position within their company. However, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that reaching a certain position within a company's hierarchy is considered to be an 
outstanding achievement. Further, there is insufficient information regarding the requirements of a 
committee chairman or president to establish that such an individual is inherently a nationally or 
internationally recognized expert within the field of finance. 
Upon review, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's claim to this criterion is of several different 
types, including articles in corporate newsletters or magazines as well as local newspapers, radio 
interviews of the Petitioner, and images of her on posters, billboards and in other formats. On appeal, 
she asserts that the evidence submitted "was written about [the Petitioner] or alternatively did cover 
her contributions in the field." However, the plain language of this criterion requires that both 
conditions be met: qualifying published material must be about the Petitioner and must relate to her 
work in her field of expertise. In addition, published material that focuses on the Petitioner's employer 
or a larger event in which she participated is not about her and does not meet this regulatory criterion. 
5 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). For example, the article appearing in El 
Caraboneno o~ 11987 was about the graduation of economists from the University of I I and includes only a single sentence mentioning that the Petitioner spoke on behalf of the 
graduating class and thanked the professors. Just as an article about a circus show is not about one 
actor who is briefly mentioned, so this article is not about the Petitioner. 
Similarly, an article appearing the newspaper Notitarde is about~----~s Christmas party, 
and the inclusion of the Petitioner in a captioned group photo does not make the article about her. In 
addition, although a reader can assume that she is an employee of~--------' there is no 
discussion of the Petitioner's work in the field, nor is her job title mentioned. 
Two additional written articles were published inl !Magazine, a corporate publication. 2 One 
of these articles describes the annual internal financial controls audit conducted at ~-----~ 
and includes a photograph of the Petitioner and two other individuals who it can be assumed 
participated in the audit. Although this article is about the Petitioner's work, she is not mentioned or 
identified anywhere in this material, and it is therefore not about her. The second article describes the 
company's "Special Donations Program," and again the Petitioner appears in an uncaptioned group 
photograph and is not mentioned by name. Further, although it can be surmised that she participated 
in this charitable program along with others, the article does not discuss her work in the field of 
finance. 
In addition to finding that none of these articles are about the Petitioner, we also note that, despite the 
Director's specific request for such evidence in his request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner has not 
provided evidence of circulation figures or other evidence to establish that any of the publications 
discussed above are qualifying media under this criterion. Although we note that she mentioned some 
statistics in her response to the Director's RFE and later repeated them in her motion to reconsider, 
these assertions are not supported by evidence in the record, and are not accompanied by evidence 
pertaining to comparable media. The record is therefore insufficient to establish that these publications 
are professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Another type of evidence submitted in support of this criterion was the transcript of an interview of 
the Petitioner during a radio program called ,___ __ ~ ___ _.' which took place two months 
after the Petitioner filed her petition for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. The 
interview is about her and her work as a small business coach or consultant. However, as with the 
publications described above, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that this radio 
program is a qualifying medium for purposes of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also reiterates her assertion on appeal that the appearance of her image on billboards 
and posters outside of thel I administration building should be considered to be 
qualifying under this criterion. The sole evidence in support of this claim is two photographs of the 
same poster, showing the Petitioner and another individual, attached to an exterior wall of a building. 
2 The evidence does not indicate whether this Spanish-language magazine is distributed only among~employees in 
Latin America, or whether the same issue is translated into several languages and distributed across all countries where 
the company does business. 
6 
The Petitioner is not identified on the poster, nor is there any accompanying text that discusses her 
background, career or work in the areas of finance or business consulting. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a presentation including information about a webinar given by the 
Petitioner, which the presentation indicates concerned setting up a business in the United States. This 
material provides information about the results of marketing for this webinar from a company called 
I I' No evidence concerning the publication of this presentation was provided, and it is not 
about the Petitioner but about marketing efforts for her webinar. The Petitioner also provided a link 
to the webinar on YouTube, and asserts that she was the only speaker concerning business and finance. 
However, the plain language of this criterion requires evidence of published material about the 
Petitioner, not published material authored by her, which is addressed under the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). In addition, the Petitioner does not assert that I Is YouTube 
channel qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media, nor does the 
evidence support such a finding. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of performance reviews she completed for several managers who 
reported to her in her role as finance director atl I As such, we agree with the Director 
and find that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that a petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
As an initial matter, we agree that the Director erred in his initial decision in referring to the Petitioner's 
"scientific" contributions, and compounded this error in his motion decision by failing to recognize 
that the regulations state that business is a separate field from the sciences for purposes of this 
classification. However, the Petitioner does not assert, nor do we find, that this error affected the 
Director's decision in a material or significant way. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Petitioner's contributions of major significance are not 
represented by the copies in the record of presentations she made at business meetings, "but in the 
impact and effect of such lectures and presentations which produced concrete results of major 
significance in the field of business." She first refers to an "$8 MM dividend foreign sup~yment 
approval" made tol lin June 2011. As evidence of this contribution, she refers to aL__JWorld ~ers memo dated July 20, 2011, which when discussing the financial situation of the 
L___Jsubsidiary, states that "With much fanfare, the dividend payment of $8.5MM was approved 
7 
and has been received." However, the Petitioner does not provide further evidence of her role in 
I Is receipt of this dividend, or of the impact it had on the overall field of finance or business. We 
note that she submitted several reference letters from her former colleagues atl land 
others who worked with her during this period, but none mention this dividend payment or its 
contribution to an organization (let alone the overall business or finance field) whose sales in the same 
month in the "ROW Region" were $87.5 million and whose global sales in fiscal year 2014 approached 
$11 billion. 
In addition to her assertions regarding the dividend payment, the Petitioner also bases her claim to this 
criterion upon her leadership of projects while atl I The evidence shows that she 
played an important role in implementing financial and operational controls to comply with Sarbanes­
Oxley (SOX) legislation for her employer, that she led the financial aspect of important software 
system installations inl subsidiaries in Venezuela, Mexico and Costa Rica, and that she helped 
to guide the company through challenging economic conditions in I I However, while this 
evidence is sufficient to demonstrate her leading and critical role for I I and that she 
made important contributions to the company, it does not establish that her contributions were of 
significance to the broader fields of finance, small business coaching or, more broadly, business. As 
previously noted, she submitted several reference letters from former colleagues with I I I I but did not submit reference letters or other evidence to show how she impacted her field 
beyond her employer. 
As such, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion, but did not specify the basis of his decision. 
The evidence establishes that beginning in 1988, she held a number of increasingly responsible 
positions tori I reaching the level of Finance Director when she left the company in 
2013. It also shows that she played a critical role in the design and implementation of financial 
controls and systems for the company and affiliates in Latin America, and advised senior leadership 
regarding strategic acquisitions in the region. In addition, the record sufficiently demonstrates that 
~----~has a distinguished reputation. We therefore agree with the Director and find that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of her claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted several different types of evidence. 
As evidence of her salary and remuneration, she primarily relies upon letters froml I 
A letter dated June 18, 2018 states that at the time of her departure from the compan¥-,l!J,2013, she was 
earning a "basic monthly salary" of 071,271.00, and an annual salary at the rate ofLJ 1,313,524.53. 
A second letter, dated April 2011, explains her salary and benefits in greater detail, indicating that her 
"total annual fixed remuneration" as of May 1 was D 660,705.20, and that she would receive a 
variable performance-based bonus of anywhere between 0-50% of her "annual base salary." In 
addition, the letter stated that her "non-cash benefits" included a company car, along with maintenance 
and repair expenses; health, auto and life insurance; a mobile phone, and a pension plan. The Petitioner 
8 
also submitted a number of receipts and other documents relating to these non-cash benefits, and 
asserts that when considered together, her total remuneration in 2013 was the equivalent of 
$336,165.64. 
On review, we first note that the Petitioner also submitted copies of Form DPN-99025, Income Tax 
Final Statement and Payment for Resident Natural Persons and Unvested Inheritances, issued by the 
government ofl I These forms indicate that in 2011, 2012, and 2013 the Petitioner earned 
"Salary, Wages & Other Similar Income" of O 308,675.840405,144.00 and□ 475,768.00, 
respectively. The Petitioner did not explain, or provide evidence to show, why these figures differ 
substantially from those in the letters from her employer. 
In addition, the employer letter regarding the Petitioner's 2013 salary does not explain the difference 
between the basic monthly rate, which when annualized is equivalent to D 855,252, and the annual 
salary rate ofDl,313,524.53. The Petitioner also does not explain whether the "total annual fixed 
remuneration" figure shown in the 2011 employer letter is an annualized basic monthly rate or 
equivalent to the annual salary figure listed in the 2018 letter. Further, related to the point made above, 
neither letter explains whether the benefits listed in the 2011 letter (and presumably carried over to the 
same position in 2013) were already figured into the annual figures given in both letters. 
For the purpose of comparison of her salary and total remuneration to that of others in her field, the 
Petitioner submitted salary surveys from a number of sources. As a general rule, individuals working 
in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that 
salary would be considered high in the United States.3 In addition, average salary information for 
those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different responsibilities is not a proper 
basis for comparison. Rather, a petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those 
in his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, several of the surveys the Petitioner submitted do not provide relevant data for comparison to 
her salary. For example, what appears to be a slide presentation from a company called Mercer 
provides the "base salary for a director" in U.S. dollars for several Latin American countries in 2014, 
obtained from "the 2014 TRS survey." However, I I is not one of those countries, and the 
salaries range from $10,202 in Argentina to $15,609 in Chile, a difference of more than 50%. There 
is no evidence which indicates which of these figures, if any, accurately represents director salaries in I I at the time. In addition, this evidence does not provide information about the number, 
industry and size of the companies included in this survey, or describe the duties or relative level of 
responsibility of a "director," and therefore is not an accurate basis for comparison to the Petitioner's 
salary. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
9 
In addition, three other surveys, from the websites glassdoor.com and payscale.com, as well as the 
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook Handbook, provide the wages for executives 
working in the United States, and provide salary data for periods after 2013. Therefore, as they do not 
reflect the compensation of finance executives inl lin 2011 or 2013, none of these surveys 
include relevant information to provide an appropriate basis for comparison to the Petitioner's salary 
and total remuneration. 
Another salary survey, partial results of which are included in and summarized by a slide presentation 
from "the PGA Group" and an article in a magazine called Business I I was conducted by I lin May 2013. The slides indicate that 187 companies were surveyed, and the results 
were grouped by five position levels, three company sizes, and eight functional areas. As for the 
article, it differentiates between basic monthly salary and total annual salary or compensation, which 
includes commissions, bonuses and other performance-based incentives, as well as benefits such as 
"direct paY.ments, com1any profit sharing, paid vacations and other sundry variable payments." It also 
states that I workers essentially receive "around 19 or 20 (monthly) salaries per year," 
which appears to account for the difference in the monthly versus annual amounts stated in the article 
as well as the Petitioner's 2013 employer letter. Although the article does not specifically indicate 
whether other benefits received by the Petitioner such as a company car and insurance premiums are 
typically received by directors, we note that the ratio of her stated salary to her total compensation is 
close to the expected ratio indicated in the article. Therefore, due to the ambiguity in both the employer 
letters and the data provided in tha I survey, we will consider the annual salary listed 
in the 2013 letter to represent the Petitioner's total remuneration for purposes of comparison to the 
survey data, and not consider the values suggested by the receipts.4 
The relevant data from this survey indicates that directors, identified as those executives below the 
chairman or general manager level but above the mana1eria
11 level, in large companies such a~ I I I earned an average total compensation of 948,000 in 2013. In comparison, the 
Petitioner's total compensation rate5 in 2013 wasD 1,313,524.53, or approximately 138% of the 
average. However, the survey data does not provide a range of salary and total compensation figures 
from low to high, and therefore does not provide a complete picture of the compensation received by 
others in the Petitioner's field. While her total remuneration was above the average in relation to others 
in her field, she has not established that it was "significantly high" as required by the plain language 
of this criterion. Therefore, we find that the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
4 We also note that the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the value of some of the services shown by the receipts 
was received by her, as the receipts for car maintenance and mobile phone services are not in her name. In addition, the 
Petitioner has not shown that under I [tax law, the value of benefits such as repairs and maintenance to company 
vehicles, mobile phone services, and insurance premiums are considered as part of an individual's total compensation, or 
how the value of those benefits is calculated. Further, regarding the RSUs awarded to the Petitioner based upon her 
performance, a fact sheet regarding the award program notes that in most countries, "the value of RSUs at vesting is 
reportable as taxable income," and she has not demonstrated that the value of her vested RSUs should be considered in 
addition to the values reported in her tax returns or in the letters from.__ ____ _. As previously noted, there is a 
large difference between the salary and wages reported on the Petitioner's income tax forms and those stated in the letters 
from her employer, and this difference has not been explained. 
5 We consider the rate at which she was paid in 2013, as the Petitioner states that she left! I at some 
point in that year after the company was acquired. 
10 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8495211 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner has requested to withdraw the appeal. We will grant the request and enter a finding of 
willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. REQUEST FOR WITHDRAW AL OF THE APPEAL 
After a preliminary review of the record, we notified the Petitioner of our intent to dismiss the appeal 
with a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact based on various adverse findings. The 
Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. A withdrawal may not be retracted and may 
not be refused. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(6); Matter of Cintron, 16 I&N Dec. 9 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, 
the Petitioner's request will be granted and the appeal will be dismissed based on that withdrawal. 
III. WILLFUL MISREPRESENTATION 
As mentioned above, we sent the Petitioner a notice of intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal based on 
several findings outside of the record of proceeding. By issuing a NOID, we gave the Petitioner an 
opportunity to respond to the adverse findings, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). We also 
advised the Petitioner that, ifhe did not overcome the adverse findings, then we would make a finding 
of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. We farther advised that, while the Petitioner had the 
right to withdraw the petition, such a withdrawal would not prevent a finding of willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. The Petitioner responded to the NOID with a request to withdraw 
the appeal and did not address the adverse findings in any way. For the reasons discussed below, we 
find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented claimed awards and media coverage, which are 
material to the adjudication of the instant petition. 
A. Evidence of Record 
The Petitioner claims to be an alien of extraordinary ability in the arts, specifically as a singer. He claims 
to have received several awards, including an Azerbaijan's Best Award for 'I I' in 
2015, and second place in Group[}f the XVII International Music Without Limits Competition in 2017. 
A purported photograph of the Petitioner's Azerbaijan's Best Award trophy appeared to show signs of 
alteration. Further research established that the Petitioner submitted an altered image of a trophy from 
2 
2017. 1 An article inl I indicates that the award was first presented in 2016. 2 A list of winners 
published on the website for the Music Without Limits competition named a different second place 
winner in GroupD and did not name the Petitioner at all. 3 Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner 
submitted images that were altered to create the false appearance that he had won the awards. 
The Petitioner also submitted images of several purported magazine covers and articles, for example: 
• Gza, issu .__ ___ ...,---~2_0_1_6~an
7d issud._ _____ ~12018; 
• Cxeli Shokoladi, issue 2016; 
• Beawnonde, issue and 
• Tbiliselebi, issu 2014, and issue .... l ______ __.I 2016. 
These images also showed indications of digital alteration. Attempts to verify the articles further support 
the conclusion that the submitted images have been altered. For example, Gza has a searchable archive 
of past magazine covers. 4 The covers on the website lar~ely match covers that the Petition~bmitted, 
but his name and photograph are not on the true covers.) Likewise, the true cover for issuLJof Cxeli 
Shokoladi (dated 12012, not I 12016) does not feature the Petitioner's photograph or name, 
but the other, unrelated headlines are authentic. 6 
Tbiliselebi's searchable archive does not reveal any articles about the Petitioner or magazine covers 
showing his image. The date ranges of authentic issues do not match the date ranges on the submitted 
cover images. 7 Text searches for phrases from the purported articles likewise have not confirmed that 
those articles exist. 
We could not locate an online archive for Beaumonde, but the purported article in the record shows 
evidence of alteration. That magazine purportedly published an interview with the Petitioner in both I I and English. In both languages, the Petitioner's name, and the title of Beauman de, are in a 
visibly different font from the surrounding ter, conrstent with substitution. We note that the subject of 
the interview identified his ho~oscopelsign as whereas the Petitioner's earlyl I birth date 
corresponds to the Zodiac sig Therefore, several lines of evidence converge on the conclusion 
that the Petitioner submitted an altered article that was originally about someone else. 
We conclude, therefore, that the Petitioner ( or someone acting on his behalf) altered authentic magazine 
covers and articles, and wrote fictitious articles, to create the false appearance of media coverage. 
1 Images of authentic 2017 trophies can be found online at https://gramho.com/media/l 708046161069654356; 
https:/ /pbs.twimg.com/media/DUdcnvaXkAA84gy.jpg; and https://az.baku.ws/uploads/posts/2018-0 l /1516784482 _img_ 
7100.jpg ( all last visited Sept. 15, 2020). 
2 https://www.azemews.az/culture/l 6 l 354.html (last visited Sept. 15, 2020). 
3 http://www.musicwithoutlimits.lt/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/LA UREA TES-2017 .pdf (last visited Sept. 15. 2020). 
4 http://gza.kvirispalitra.ge/arqivi.html (last visited Sept. 15, 2020). 
5 The original cover images are available online at http://gza.kvirispalitra.ge/images/stories/KDA/2017/kda-36.jpg (last 
visited Sept. 14, 2020) and http://gza.kvirispalitra.ge/images/stories/KDA/2018/gzakda44.jpg (last visited Sept. 15, 2020). 
6 An image of the authentic cover and a list of the issue's contents are available at https://www.lit.ge/periodic/305-cxeli­
shokoladi-75-ianvari-2012/ (last visited Sept. 14, 2020). 
7 The archive is available at http://tbiliselebi.ge/index.php (last visited Sept. 14, 2020). 
3 
This is not a complete list of altered or falsified materials in the record, but the above examples suffice 
to explain our conclusion that the Petitioner's evidence is not authentic. 
B. Analysis 
The facts and evidence presented in the instant matter warrant a finding of willful misrepresentation 
of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
A misrepresentation is an assertion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a material misrepresentation requires that the 
foreign national willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of 
obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N 
Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See Matter o_f Healy 
and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To be considered material, the misrepresentation must 
be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which 
might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 
536, 537 (BIA 1980). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits 
evidence which contains false information. In general, a few errors or minor discrepancies are not 
reason to question the credibility of a foreign national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. 
See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. US., 345 F.3d 683,694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes 
serious errors and discrepancies, and the petitioner does not resolve those errors and discrepancies 
given the opportunity to rebut or explain, then the inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that 
the claims stated in the petition are not true. See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988). 
In this case, the discrepancies in the documents relating to the petition constitute substantial and 
probative evidence. The Petitioner submitted evidence purporting to show media coverage, which is 
material to the petition under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Purported prize trophies and certificates are 
material to the petition under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). When given an opportunity to rebut these 
findings, the Petitioner offered no rebuttal or explanation for the inconsistencies and instead withdrew 
the petition. If the Petitioner had not withdrawn the appeal, we would have dismissed the appeal based 
on these misrepresentations. See Cintron, 16 I&N Dec. at 9; see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation. 
Section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C), provides: 
Misrepresentation -(i) In general -Any alien who, by fraud or willfully 
misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to procure or has 
4 
procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other 
benefit provided under this Act is inadmissible. 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See Matter of M-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter of L-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 1961); Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
First, the Petitioner submitted falsified evidence (images of prize materials, magazine covers, and 
articles) intended to falsely create the appearance of awards and media coverage in his field. The 
Petitioner's submission of these falsified documents in support of his immigrant visa petition 
constitutes a false representation to a government official. 
Next, we find that the Petitioner willfully made the misrepresentation. The Petitioner has not asserted 
that he believed the prizes or articles to be authentic, or explained how he came to be in possession of 
them. When given the opportunity to address our findings, the Petitioner withdrew the appeal rather 
than offering any explanation or rebuttal that he submitted the evidence accidentally, inadvertently, or 
in an honest belief that the assertions previously offered in support of the petition were true. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner signed Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, certifying under 
penalty of perjury that the visa petition and the submitted evidence are all true and correct. See section 
287(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(b); see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2). Accompanying the signed 
petition, the Petitioner submitted the articles and letter, specifically citing them as evidence in support 
of the petition. Part 8 of Form 1-140 requires a petitioner to make the following affirmation: "I certify, 
under penalty of perjury of the United States of America, that this petition and the evidence submitted 
with it are all true and correct." On the basis of this affirmation, made under penalty of perjury, we 
find that the Petitioner willfully and knowingly made the misrepresentation. 
Third, the misrepresented facts are material. To be considered material, a false statement must be 
shown to have been predictably capable of affecting the decision of the decision-making body. Kungys 
v. US., 485 U.S. 759 (1988). Here, the misrepresentations could have affected the outcome of the 
petition because they purported to address, and to satisfy, specified criteria of eligibility. In light of 
the falsified evidence we described above and in the NOID, we find that the Petitioner's 
misrepresentations were material to his eligibility. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
By filing the instant petition and submitting falsified evidence of prizes and media coverage, the 
Petitioner sought to procure a benefit provided under the Act through willful misrepresentation of a 
material fact. This finding may be considered in any future proceeding where admissibility is an issue. 
While the Petitioner has chosen to withdraw his appeal, this does not negate our finding that he sought 
to procure immigration benefits through willful misrepresentations of material facts, which may render 
him inadmissible in future proceedings. 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12509489 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he will continue to work in his field of claimed extraordinary ability, or that his work 
will be of substantial prospective benefit to the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an illustrator and "street artist," whose projects have ranged from drawings for 
wristwatch faces to large outdoor murals. Prior to entering the United States shortly before filing the 
petition, the Petitioner worked inl I the capital and largest city inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Petitioner also claims to have submitted comparable evidence equivalent to criterion (viii), 
relating to a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iii), (iv), 
and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
2 
After reviewing the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has met at 
least three criteria. Therefore, rather than discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary criteria, 
we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown his eligibility. 
Copies of several published articles and a transcript of a television broadcast show that the Petitioner 
has attracted media coverage inl I The Director determined that this coverage satisfies 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to "[p]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work." The Director acknowledged that this 
evidence portrays the Petitioner as "a recognizable Artist-Illustrator inl ~' before concluding that, 
nevertheless, the evidence does not place the Petitioner at the top of his field. 
It is notable that several of the submitted articles refer to the Petitioner as a prominent artist who is often 
recognized on the street. One article, describing a master class he taught as part of an art festival, 
described an admirer's excitement when the Petitioner gave her a screen print that she would not have 
been able to afford to buy. Another article is not about the Petitioner; it mentions him only once, in 
passing. But in the context of the record as a whole, it bears noting that this article calls the Petitioner a 
"well-known artist." In the aggregate, the published materials take the Petitioner's prominence for 
granted, with a tone that presumes readers' familiarity with him and his work. The Director did not 
question the authenticity or origin of the published material in the record, or (with the limited exception 
of one piece that lacks required information) establish that its evidentiary weight is limited. 
The Petitioner's reputation appears to rest in part on large, prominent outdoor murals, some of which have 
attracted press coverage of their own. The Petitioner has also documented several lucrative commercial 
projects to design products or decorate office space for prominent clients such as a major I I 
corporation, a largel !manufacturer, and the United Nations organization! I Contracts 
with prominent customers are not, by themselves, strong evidence of acclaim or recognition, but the 
record supports the conclusion that these customers (particularly the I I manufacturer) selected 
the Petitioner on the basis of his existing reputation, rather than simply because he was a local artist who 
was available during the relevant period. Rather, the Petitioner's work brought a recognizable character 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
to the projects in question. The record is also consistent with the conclusion that the Petitioner was 
particularly well-paid for many of these endeavors, further dispelling the idea that the Petitioner was 
randomly chosen. 
It appears to be particularly significant that the Petitioner had a solo exhibition not of finished works, but 
of sketches and drafts that led to those finished works. The nature of such an exhibition presumes a level 
of public interest in a "behind the scenes" glimpse at the Petitioner's creative process, before the works 
in question were polished and perfected. This, by itself, does not establish acclaim, but it is one of several 
lines of evidence that converge on the conclusion that the Petitioner is a prominent artist inl I 
Not all of the Petitioner's evidence is persuasive. For instance, information regarding his membership 
in thd I union of Designers does not consistently portray an exclusive association rather than 
a trade guild. But the less-persuasive evidence in the record does not raise fundamental questions of 
credibility that would undermine other elements of the record such as the evidence discussed above. 
We find that the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
C. Continued Work and Prospective Benefit 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires "clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue 
work in the area of expertise." The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not sufficiently establish 
how he will continue working in his field in the United States, because he provided only "vague 
ambitions" and "prospective hopes of finding work" rather than "detailed plans." Based on this stated 
lack of specific plans, the Director also found that the Petitioner had not established substantial 
prospective benefit to the United States as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
The Petitioner, however, had submitted letters from two prospective clients (;:ii I law firm and 
a I I software development company), expressing an intention to engage the Petitioner's 
services on graphic design and painting projects, contingent on the Petitioner's obtaining work 
authorization. The Director's denial notice did not explain why these letters are deficient, and the 
Director did not cite any evidence that would undermine their credibility. We withdraw the Director's 
conclusions in this regard. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim in his field and submitted 
extensive documentation of his achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he intends to 
continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that his entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11928922 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a finance business partner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classificatio n makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of the classification through evidence 
of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a finance business partner who has been employed in the field of accounting for more 
than 20 years. At the time of filing she was working for an online gaming company, and indicated 
that she intends to continue working as a finance business partner in the United States within the 
gaming industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others and her 
leading or critical role for association with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to membership in an organization which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that she has not established that she meets the requisite three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion upon her membership in two professional associations: 
the Chartered Institute of Management Accounting (CIMA) and the Institute of Financial Accountants 
(IFA). The record includes evidence that she was admitted as a fellow of CIMA in August 2018, and 
as a fellow of IFA three months later. She also submitted evidence about the membership requirements 
for both associations, which included bylaws, letters and other documentation. We will consider the 
material relating to both associations below. 
2 
The requirements for membership as a fellow in CIMA are included at Part I of its regulations, which 
are either part of or an addendum to the association's bylaws. They state that a candidate must already 
be an associate, affiliate or registered student of the organization, pass or be exempt from any required 
examinations, hold an accounting qualification, have three years of practical experience at a senior 
and responsible level (in addition to the three years of experience needed to qualify as an associate), 
and be able to demonstrate "significant involvement in and contribution to the strategic management 
of their organization." In the alternative, an associate or affiliate of the organization can qualify as a 
fellow with a minimum of ten years practical experience at a senior and responsible level, with 
contributions to the strategic management of the organization. 
A document titled "Fellowship of CIMA (FCMA) Guidelines for Associate Members wishing to apply 
for Fellowship" states that the senior experience must be in one or more of three categories: strategic 
leadership, operational/functional leadership, and technical leadership. The qualifying work to be 
performed in these categories generally includes leadership at the Board level, or achieving business 
objectives for or providing advice to those at the Board level. This also includes providing input to 
original strategic decisions which are adopted by the organization. In addition, what appears to be a 
presentation given to aspiring Cl MA fellows indicates that fellowship "is awarded only when someone 
has appropriate experience," and that the status "should reflect tangible achievement." 
Additional evidence regarding the Petitioner's CIMA membership was submitted in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), and includes a letter from an assistant professor atl I 
University. The writer provides a summary of the requirements in the CIMA regulations and 
guidelines noted above, and then discusses the Petitioner's achievements with her current and previous 
employers. He then concludes that "the exceptional business nuance and financial acumen that [the 
Petitioner] exhibited in her career was recognized by the CIMA ... " and led to her acceptance as a 
CIMA fellow. However, we note that the writer does not claim to have worked with the Petitioner, be 
a CIMA fellow himself or to have been involved in the review of any CIMA fellowship applications, 
let alone the Petitioner's application. 
The Director found that the requirements included in the CIMA bylaws were professional 
achievements, but did not rise to the level of extraordinary achievements. He also indicated that 
requirements such as a minimum level of education or number of years of experience, such as those 
included in the CIMA bylaws, do not constitute outstanding achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner 
refers to the bylaws and the requirement of three years senior years of experience at a senior and 
responsible level, and specifically to the technical leadership section involving the development of 
thought leadership and provision of advice at or to the Board level. However, while we acknowledge 
that the requirement of having performed at the senior level of an organization, as well as providing 
evidence of "tangible achievement," is more specific and presents a higher threshold for membership 
than simply a minimum number of years of experience, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that having 
the "appropriate experience" is sufficient to show that such achievements are considered to be 
outstanding in the Petitioner's field. We note that examples of qualifying technical leadership 
provided in the presentation to fellow candidates include the development of new accounting or 
financial management processes, systems development resulting from changes in legislation, and new 
procedures and processes in specific technical areas. The Petitioner has not shown that such 
achievements, accomplished within the scope of one's job duties and limited to a single organization, 
would set an experienced accountant or finance business partner apart from her peers. 
3 
As to whether membership as a Cl MA fellow is judged by recognized national or international experts, 
the evidence shows that candidates are interviewed by trained assessors who are already CIMA 
fellows, and that there are 105 of these assessors worldwide. The record also includes several 
biographies or interviews of senior executives of large corporations who are CIMA fellows, most of 
which appeared in CIMA publications or websites. However, the record does not indicate that these 
individuals are assessors or have been in the past, not does it show that gaining CIMA fellowship leads 
to, or is indicative of, national or international recognition as an expert. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in IFA as a fellow, which the evidence indicates also included 
fellow membership in the Institute of Public Accountants (IPA), the organization's webpage titled 
"Membership Grades" indicates that fellows "have been working in a senior role in the accountancy 
profession for no fewer than ten years, the last five at a senior level in accountancy." The IFA bylaws 
provide that, in addition to the senior experience requirement, a fellow candidate must hold a UK or 
overseas accountancy qualification approved by it, or be a member of another professional body. 
In addition to the bylaws, the Petitioner submitted a letters from both the IFA and IPA The CEO of 
the IPA Group indicates that "the Board has discretion to decide any extra qualifications we see fit for 
membership, and I can confirm that the board uses this discretion." However, as he does not provide 
any further details about what those extra qualifications may be, this statement does not show that IPA 
requires outstanding achievements of fellows. Another letter was submitted from the Education 
Manager of the IFA, who states that members seeking fellow status "must demonstrate continuing 
professional development and expertise, acknowledged leadership, impeccable judgment and 
unwavering integrity." But these requirements do not go beyond those stated in the bylaws, as an 
accountant working in a senior role for ten years would be expected to continue their professional 
development in to reach that level and act as a leader. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "the IFA certainly requires members to have a well-established 
financial, professional background as well as the qualifications of expertise." While we agree that the 
evidence shows that this organization requires its members at the fellow level to be experienced 
professionals who have acquired a certain level of expertise, we do not find that those requirements 
include outstanding achievements. In addition, although the bylaws indicate that membership 
decisions "may be delegated to the Chief Executive Officer by the Board," it is not apparent whether 
this refers to individual membership decisions or those relating to membership rules and policies. This 
evidence does not therefore establish that recognized national or international experts judge the merits 
of applications for IFA fellowship. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that neither CIMA nor the IFA require outstanding 
achievements of their members at the fellow level, nor has it been established that applications for 
fellow status in these organizations is judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
fields. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence which establishes that she served as a judge for the 2018 iGaming 
Idol awards in the.____~----~-----' category, as an expert panelist (but not a head 
judge) who participated in determining the short list for the 2019 Partnership Awards, and as a judge 
for the 2019 Stevie Awards. We therefore agree with the Director and find that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To show that a petitioner meets this criterion, the evidence must establish that the role he or she 
performed in an organization was either leading or critical for the organization as a whole. A leading 
role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or 
the establishment's activities. 
A reference letter from ~----~of the Natural Environmental Research Council (NERC) of 
thel I describes the Petitioner's role in several projects. In particular, he states that the 
Petitioner's work on theO Project, which investigated whether research centers should operate 
independently of the NERC and the financial impact of such a change] lnotes that both he and 
the Chairman of NERC relied upon the Petitioner's analysis in making this decision, and that it was 
presented at al !committee hearing regarding theOProject. As a result of this work, 
she was nominated for a department-level award. He also indicates that her assignment to various 
entities within NERC as a trouble-shooter, including to thd Ito develop new 
financial processes and controls, were a sign of her criticality to the organization. 
In addition, evidence was also submitted regarding the reputation of NERC asl ~s leading public 
agency providing funding for environmental science. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
5 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10979763 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker who has primarily worked as a first assistant director, seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as "one of the most renowned Filmmakers froml I" A printout 
from the Internet Movie Database (IMDb) names 20 films on which the Petitioner worked since 1998, 
most of them inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met eight of these criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
I (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
I (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
Regarding criterion (vi), the Petitioner does not claim to have authored scholarly articles, but she 
asserts that she has submitted comparable evidence. The Director concluded that the Petitioner met 
three of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (i), (iv), and (vii), and proceeded to a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all eight of the claimed evidentiary 
criteria. 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only two 
of the criteria, as explained below. Therefore, the petition does not merit a final merits determination, 
but because the Director reached such a determination, we will address the relevant issues below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
The founder/director of the~----------------~----~-~ c==J. states that the Petitioner "was nominated and awarded as the Best Assistant director of the L___J Cinematography at the second meeting of filmmakers inl I The official does not 
discuss the recognition of the award. 
The Petitioner claims: "The I !Award is the highest honor attainable in the field of film 
entertainment in I I Despite this claimed importance, the Petitioner submits no first-hand 
documentary evidence that she received it. Instead, she submits a translation of what appears to be a press 
release listing several award recipients. Also, the minimal documentation submitted does not support the 
Petitioner's claim that the award froml I is a nationally recognized award. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner initially asserted that she satisfies this criterion through her membership in I I and 
the The 
Petitioner did not submit evidence of ~I --~l's membership requirements, and she does not cite I las a qualifying association on appeal. 
The president of I I (who is either the Petitioner's spouse or has exactly the same name as him) 
states: "To become a member, you must have produced at least two long feature films, have at least 10 
years of experience in filmmaking, and attain a level of national recognition." He claims that these 
requirements are "provided in the bylaws of the organization," and quotes what he identifies as "clause 
(6.b.)." The quoted passage, however, does not include any requirement for "a level of national 
recognition." It only requires participation in "at least one ... short, medium or feature film, which has 
been exhibited or publicly disseminated [in] any form within the last ten (10) years." The Petitioner does 
not submit the complete bylaws or identify any website where they are available. Participation in one 
film within a ten-year period is not an outstanding achievement, and the other claimed requirements are 
unsubstantiated. 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner claims to be "routine! asked to judge competitions featuring productions," but identifies 
only two instances: the,.__ ____ ..--__.Short Film Festival, held in conjunction with the annual 
I I Book Fair in,___ ___ __., and thel I Film Festival. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. We will discuss it further in the 
context of the final merits determination. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner maintains that 1er pr
1esentation of "courses, seminars, and workshops" at the I I I ~ Short Film Festival is comparable to published material. The Petitioner also refers to 
"academic workshops, seminars, and classes at distinguished film production institutions" but does not 
identify the institutions or cite supporting evidence. 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), a petitioner may rely on "comparable evidence" only when the regulatory 
criteria do not readily apply to a given beneficiary's occupation. The Petitioner claims the scholarly 
articles "criterion does not readily apply to [her] occupation" because, in film, "an instructor must interact 
with his or her audience in order to present a technique, method, or practice. Filming is about physical 
movement and coordination. This cannot be taught or presented in the form of a scholarly article." This 
argument is not persuasive. The record names several film schools that offer graduate degrees, 
demonstrating an academic framework that would appear to be conducive to scholarly publications. The 
assertion that certain skills are best taught in person does not demonstrate that scholarly publications do 
not exist in the film industry. The record does not establish the specific content of the workshops that the 
Petitioner taught. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that classroom instruction, limited in its reach to those in 
one classroom at a particular time, is comparable to published material which is disseminated to others in 
the field and remains available indefinitely for review and reference. 
The Petitioner has not authored scholarly articles, or submitted comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director granted this criterion, because the Petitioner worked on seven films shown at various film 
festivals. We will not disturb this finding, but we will revisit the issue in the context of the final merits 
determination. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish three separate things: that her role was (1) leading 
or critical (2) for organizations or establishments (3) with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner states: 
[A] First Assistant Director works to see each film from pre-production to post­
production. This person ... serves as an overall manager of the film as she knows the 
script, scenes, the actors, the roles, and the financial component of the production. She 
will be in charge of the actors and provide technical direction to the film, as well as 
manage the lighting, filming, and sound crews. 
The record indicates that a first assistant director plays a critical role within the context of a given 
production. But the regulation requires the role to be leading or critical "for organizations or 
establishments," and the Petitioner has not established that the productions themselves constitute 
organizations or establishments. Likewise, the Petitioner must establish the distinguished reputations of 
those organizations or establishments. The success or critical reception of any one particular film does 
not necessarily establish the overall reputation of an identifiable organization. 
The Petitioner has shown that she served as first assistant director on some films that received good 
reviews, but the evidence does not show that her role was critical for any identified organization or 
establishment. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner states that she has earned $500 per day on certain projects, and she submits a printout from 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), indicating that the top 10% of producers and directors earn $181,780 
per year. The Petitioner states: "This amounts to $498.03 per day ($181,780 / 365 days.)" The record, 
however, does not show that the Petitioner had received that level of remuneration at the time of filing, 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). Letters from 2015 and 2016 discussed her expected participation 
on projects to be undertaken in 2017, but there is no evidence that she actually worked on those projects.1 
An IMDb printout of the Petitioner's filmography, submitted with the petition, shows neither project, and 
their filming schedules overlapped at locations thousands of miles apart. A July 2018 contract indicated 
that she would be paid $500 per day for her work on I I but this occurred several months after 
she filed the petition in March 2018. d ldoes not appear on the IMDb printout submitted in 
March 2018.) The Petitioner has not submitted any evidence of compensation that she received before 
she filed the petition. 
1 One of these letters was apparently written by the Petitioner's spouse. 
5 
Even then, the BLS printout in the record does not support the Petitioner's extrapolations. The table 
shows a 50th percentile (median) annual wage of $68,440, and a 90th percentile figure of $181,780. A 
filmmaker earning $500 per day would have to work 364 days to surpass the 90th percentile figure. 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner has not shown her total annual earnings. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not address this important point, instead repeating the BLS figures and 
calculations which presume virtually uninterrupted employment. The record does not establish that the 
Petitioner has worked every day without interruption. Rather, the IMDb printout indicates that sometimes 
years elapse between projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not provided more comprehensive figures for her total earnings, she has not 
established that her overall annual earnings justify extrapolating the earnings from isolated projects to 
annual figures. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner asserts that the quoted figures pertain to "filmmakers," the BLS 
printout pertains to producers and directors of "stage, television, radio, video, or motion picture 
productions for entertainment, information, or instruction." The annual mean wage for producers and 
directors in the "Motion Picture and Video Industries" is $105,550, which is more than 50% higher than 
the overall median figure of $68,440 shown above. Presumably, the 90th percentile figure for film 
producers and directors is, likewise, substantially higher than the figure provided, but the Petitioner did 
not submit that information. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner served as an assistant director for portions of I I which IMDb's Box Office 
Mojo ranks atD in the genre of "Sports -Boxing" films, remaining in theaters for seven weeks and 
earning a "Total Lifetime Gross" of $4.7 million. The printout does not state the total number of films in 
the "Sports -Boxing" subgenre, or provide the range of their commercial performance and longevity. 
Therefore, the ranking lacks crucial context. For example, a ranking of□ out of 500 films would be 
rather more persuasive than a ranking of D out of 50. 
It is significant that the Petitioner's field of endeavor is not limited to the subgenre of dramas about 
boxing, and therefore restricting the comparison to other such films appears to arbitrarily exclude the vast 
majority of films produced for entertainment. In terms of a bigger picture, the same submitted Box Office 
Mojo printout ranks I ~ atl I for "All Time Domestic," and0for "Worst Openings-
Wide Releases Adjusted." An IMDbPro printout in the record estimates the budget tori I 
at $20 million, while the reported "Total Lifetime Gross" was less than one-fourth that amount. Given 
these figures, the commercial success of I I is, at best, debatable. 
The Petitioner also claims to have "attained commercial success in as a Filmmaker for some 
of the most successful films in the country." The Petitioner submits a table of ·~--~films screened 
from 1976 to 2016," attributed to al I government authority. The Petitioner worked on some 
6 
of the films named. The table shows attendance and box office figures for ten films, but does not explain 
the purpose of the list. For example, the table does not indicate that the films are the highest-grossing 
during the 40-year period specified. It is simply a list of ten films. Submitted by itself, it lacks sufficient 
context to establish commercial success. 
The evidence submitted does not establish the Petitioner's commercial success in the performing arts. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Director issued a final merits determination, we will address that determination here, and 
explain why the petition would not have been approved had we proceeded to such a determination. 
The Director's final merits determination was a single paragraph, focusing on the conclusion that the 
Petitioner has not "risen to the top of the filmmaking industry" because she "makes no claims as a lead 
director. Her roles as assistant director are secondary to the lead or primary directors." We agree with 
the Petitioner that this analysis does not take the record as a whole into consideration. A first assistant 
director has a distinct role within a given production, and is not simply an aspiring director serving 
what amounts to an apprenticeship in a lesser capacity. 
Notwithstanding the deficiencies of the Director's final merits determination, the record as a whole 
does not place the Petitioner at the very top of her field or establish sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has worked on over 20 films since 1998, usually as a first assistant 
director. Longevity in the industry, however, is not the same as sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has worked on some well-received films, but the record does not support some 
key claims regarding, for example, prizes and memberships. As noted above, the Petitioner initially cited 
two projects as evidence of her compensation, but the record does not show that she actually participated 
in those projects. Such issues affect the overall credibility and weight of ambiguous claims and evidence 
in the record. 
The independent, objective evidence in the record does little more than establish the Petitioner's film 
credits. The petition relies heavily on letters from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner. These 
letters certainly have weight in terms of describing the Petitioner's activities, but by their nature such 
letters cannot strongly establish that the Petitioner is acclaimed beyond those who have worked with her. 
More than one of these letters appears to be from the Beneficiary's spouse. 
The Petitioner's work has appeared at several film festivals, which the Director recognized by granting 
the criterion related to artistic display. But the Petitioner has not established the significance of these 
particular festivals or shown that the festival appearances particularly highlighted the Petitioner's 
involvement in the films in a manner that would reflect or contribute to acclaim. 
7 
Several of the Petitioner's assertions regard thP.I lshort Film Festival, held in conjunction 
with the annual I I Book Fair inl I At thec=Jsuch festival, the Petitioner taught 
workshops, oversaw student film productions, and served on the festival's jury. A press release in the 
record indicates that participation is restricted to films "directed byl I filmmakers (or of I I descent) residing abroad," and that the festival's top prize is a $1300 cash award. The 
Petitioner has not established the greater significance of this very narrowly focused event. Therefore, her 
participation in the event is not inherently indicative of acclaim. 
The Petitioner's other documented participation as a judge was at the I IFilm Festival. The 
Petitioner does not submit any independent evidence to establish the reputation or significance of this 
event; the submitted materials consist of a letter from an organizer and a press release. Participation is 
restricted to "short films and video works produced by alumni [and] ... students in the School of Media 
Studies" at the I I inl I 
The president of a production company states that he invited the Petitioner to participate in a "Student 
Produced Film Showcase" based on her "real work experience, sensitivity and the ability to work well 
with others." None of these factors relates directly to acclaim or recognition in the field. The record 
suggests that the Petitioner's involvement as a judge derived not from her reputation but because the 
individual who invited her had known her "for the past 15 years." 
The record does not show that the Petitioner has consistently worked on successful or high-profile films, 
consistent with sustained acclaim. The Petitioner did work on I I which featured well­
known actors such asl I but the evidence indicates her involvement was limited. The 
director of that film states that the Petitioner participated only in certain sequences rather than "the 
complete shooting." In the IMDb printout in the record.I I is the only film showing the 
Petitioner simply as an "assistant director" rather than "first assistant director,"2 an important distinction 
given the assertions elsewhere in the record about the role of the first assistant director in organizing a 
production. 
The record, as a whole, does not establish sustained national or international acclaim as the statute and 
regulations require. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. The record in the aggregate does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or who have worked 
with more successful or prominent figures. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that her work, in 
2 For another film, I I I MDb credits the Petitioner as both "assistant director" and "first assistant director," 
demonstrating that the industry recognizes a meaningful distinction between the two terms. 
8 
particular, has garnered her sustained national or international acclaim or is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12283728 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and lecturer about the game of poker, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned doctorates in mathematics and mathematical logic from the University D 
, and has applied his mathematical knowledge to poker The Petitioner 
~w-r-it_e_s -a-b-ou_t_p_ok_e_r_f._o_r_v_a_n __ o-u-s~websites and teaches a class at the I : 
0 I I I which offers classes to students aged 50 and older. At the time of filing the 
petition in July 2019, the Petitioner was working on a book "which may be accompanied by a video 
series." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met five criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
The Petitioner also claimed to have submitted comparable evidence in lieu of criterion (vi), authorship 
of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criterion numbered (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the criteria numbered (iii), (v), (vi), and (viii). The Petitioner does not contest 
2 
the Director's conclusions regarding criterion (vii), and therefore we consider that issue to be 
abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, as explained below, we conclude that the Petitioner 
has not satisfied any of the evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner asserts, on appeal, that the Director did not give sufficient weight to articles published 
online. There is some merit to this general proposition, but review of the record reveals a more 
fundamental issue. 
The Petitioner submits several printouts of two articles, both from late 2018, which appeared on several 
websites, including the websites of local affiliates of some major television networks. The wording of 
each version of the articles is the same, indicating a common source. The articles do not name the author, 
as the regulations require. Instead, they are credited to "Marketers Media," identified as a "Press Release 
Distribution Service." Many of the submitted printouts include this disclaimer: "Information contained 
on this page is provided by an independent third-party content provider. Frankly [the owner of the 
affiliate] and this Station make no warranties or representations in connection therewith." 
The record also includes a copy of the "Press Release Distribution Report" for one of the articles. The 
Petitioner's possession of this document further supports the conclusion that he, or someone acting on his 
behalf: engaged a marketing company to issue press releases to various media outlets which, in tum, claim 
no responsibility for the contents thereof Third-party content published with a disclaimer in this manner 
cannot be considered to be equivalent to news coverage by the network afiiliates and other outlets 
involved; the press releases are more akin to advertising than to journalism. Marketing materials created 
for the purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are not generally 
considered to be published material about the petitioner. 2 
Apart from the promotional press releases, the Petitioner submits other articles, each of which is 
deficient in some respect. Translated copies ofl llanguage articles about the Petitioner lack the 
required author credits, greatly restricting their probative value, particularly in conjunction with other 
evidence showing that the Petitioner essentially purchased media coverage for promotional purposes. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https ://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 
An article about the Petitioner appeared in the "a student-run publication" atl I A 
blog post fromD at LJ noted the publication of th article. The record does not 
show significant readership of either media beyondl !students, employees, and alumni. 
Articles about the Petitioner appeared on the websites of Pokerground and I ~eporter, each of 
which receives less than 40,000 visits per month. Similar reports for the sites of local television 
network affiliates (not the networks themselves, which would consistently attract national traffic) 
show figures in the hundreds of thousands or even millions. The Petitioner has not established that 
.__ _ ___,!Reporter or Pokerground constitute professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Officials of Winning Poker Network (WPN), Upswing Poker, and PokerNews state that the Petitioner 
makes valuable contributions as a columnist for the websites, and that the Petitioner suggested important 
revisions to WPN's .__ ______ __. Counsel for the Petitioner asserts that "Upswing Poker is one 
of the most successful poker training sites in the world"; "WPN' s website ... is considered the number 
one US poker site online"; and "Poker News is the world's leading website dedicated to providing poker 
enthusiasts with a source of news, strategy, and more." Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. 
Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 
17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). The Petitioner documents the web traffic to the websites, which 
permits a comparison between those three sites, but does not show their standing in the field overall 
(which includes other poker sites). A reputation is dependent on outside perception, which cannot be 
established through statements from within the organizations. 
We note that on a printout from its own website, WPN does not claim to be "considered the number one 
US poker site." Rather, the site states: "Our growth has been tremendous over the last several years and 
we are positioned to be an extremely important industry player in the future." 
The Petitioner also claims to have performed in a critical role forl l but the record does not establish 
such a role at an institutional level. Instead, the former assistant director ofl J I I states that the Petitioner "has been an essential member 0~ . at I I, actin~ as 1 educator and consultant to many of ourl !students." The program 
coordinator at tates that the Petitioner's poker and chess courses are so popular that there is a wait 
list, and he is among the most highly rated instructors. The Petitioner does not establish that his role was 
critical td I as a whole, or that thq I Center orD have distinguished reputations in their 
own right. 
A lecturer atl !College states that the Petitioner gave a well-received speech at a Philosophy 
Club gathering there. The lecturer does not explain why this single event was critical tol I 
College, and the Petitioner does not establish that the college has a distinguished reputation. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
The founder o Poker offers an online "Advanced Heads-Up Mastery Course." I I vice 
president of Poker states that the Petitioner "was called upon to judge the [founder's] work" and 
write an article on.__ __ ____. site containing his evaluation of the course. The Petitioner describes this 
article as a "review." But the article is not an objective or independent evaluation of the course. Rather, 
it is essentially an advertisement for a product offered by the Petitioner's employer, on the same website 
where the article appeared. Every opinion stated in the article is positive, and the piece ends with "a free 
video from the course" and a coupon code "for $150 off' the course. 
Authorship of this promotional piece does not amount to participation as a judge of the work of others. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submits examples of columns that he has written for online and print publications. The 
Petitioner initially contended that these articles are comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), 
but there does not appear to be a need to invoke that clause here. The Director concluded that "discussions 
of poker scenarios on poker websites" do not amount to scholarly articles, but we agree with the Petitioner 
that the term "'scholarly articles' can encompass writings outside of academia."3 The articles appear to 
qualify as scholarly, in that they are written in a technical manner that presumes considerable knowledge 
of poker rules and terminology, rather than popular articles offering general advice and instructions on 
how to play the game. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner has not established that these articles appeared in major trade publications or 
other major media.4 The Petitioner submits web traffic statistics for some of the websites, but these raw 
statistics do not provide a basis for comparison to show that these publications have high circulation 
numbers compared to other publications of their kind. 5 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
3 For fields outside academia, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("'Learned" is defined 
as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship.") USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 
at 9. 
4 Poker js not a profession as defined at section 101 (a)(32) of the Act, which states: "The term 'profession' shall include 
but not be limited to architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers in elementary or secondary schools, 
colleges, academies, or seminaries." Therefore, a publication aimed at poker players is not a professional publication, 
notwithstanding the vernacular term "professional poker players" who play as a primary means of support rather than 
recreationally. 
5 Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should 
establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics. USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra. 
5 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner asserts that his work for the above-named organizations included original contributions of 
major significance. For instance, he contends that his "innovative I I provided to WPN stands 
as one of his most publicized contributions of major significance." That publicity took the form of one 
of the aforementioned press releases and a blog post that names the Petitioner as its author. However 
beneficial the changed~----~ may have been to WPN and to players using the site, it does not 
follow that the contribution was of major significance throughout the field. 
The Petitioner also submits printouts of articles that he wrote for PokerNews. These articles are not 
evidence of their own significance, and the Petitioner does not establish that these writings are of major 
significance in the field. The record also indicates that the Petitioner was writing a book, but the book 
was not yet published at the time the Petitioner filed the petition in July 2019. 6 Paperwork in the record 
indicates that the finished manuscript was due to be delivered several months later, in November 2019. 
Any discussion of the significance of an unpublished book would be premature. 
In letters in the record, employers and other individuals credit the Petitioner with original contributions, 
but they do not adequately explain how those contributions are of major significance. Describing the 
Petitioner's work and then praising it in hyperbolic but general and unsubstantiated terms cannot sufiice 
in this regard. 
For example, an editor-at-large of Ante Up Magazine states th,t the Petitioner's articles "appear on 
websites considered to be the premiere [sic] online content source I" but the writer does 
not establish who holds that opinion. The same individual states that the Petitioner's articles have "proven 
to be the most sought-after content on leading poker. websites," which is an assertion of empirical fact 
unsupported by data. The editor-at-large states that the Petitioner "has garnered press recognition both 
inside and outside the United States. . . . [H]d I analysis for Winning Poker Network ... 
was recognized as revolutionary and covered by websites owned by CBS; ABC; FOX; NBC; and more." 
As shown above, the publicity surrounding the I I analysis derived entirely from press releases 
apparently commissioned by the Petitioner or someone connected to him. Some of the websites that ran 
the press release (with a disclaimer) belonged to network affiliates, but those affiliates are owned by I ~ not by the networks named in the letter. These issues diminish the weight of the letter. 
6 A printout from an online retailer shows an expected release date in June 2020, nearly a year after the filing date. 
G 
The editor-at-large contends that the Petitioner's "innovative contribution to thel I at WPN 
cannot be overstated" because it solved "one of the bi est issues of poker gaming networks: I I 
~----------~-----;=====-======.---~' The record does not document any 
significant controversy or discussion of~----~prior to the Petitioner's work on the subject, nor 
does it establish the extent to which other sites have adopted the Petitioner' sl I WPN' s own 
chief executive officer does not claim widespread adoption of the I I he states that it has had 
a positive impact on "WPN and players alike." 
The editor-at-large also asserts that the Petitioner "is actively working in promoting a predominantly male 
dominated game to the significantly underrepresented female population. As a result, his work has caught 
the attention of the Women's Poker Association which have [sic] invited him to discuss his work." The 
record does not establish that the Petitioner's work with that association has attracted significant notice. 
The Petitioner recorded a video interview with a representative from the association, which was posted 
online in two parts on Y ouTube. Screen capture printouts in the record show 116 views for part 1, and 
71 views for part 2. These figures do not indicate major significance in the field. Regarding the 
association itself, an online article announced its founding in April 2018; the comment section following 
the article shows one comment ( about a female author and poker player whose name does not appear in 
the article). 
Representatives from various websites that have published the Petitioner's work offer general praise. For 
instance, the strategy editor at PokerNews states: 
[The Petitioner's] articles have been well received by readers and by my colleagues. In 
fact, some ... have been among the most read pieces to appear in the site's strategy section 
over recent months. To this extent, [the Petitioner] has not only contributed important 
content to our organization . . . , but also to the poker community as a whole. His 
innovative work[ s] are of importance to the poker community and a much needed breath 
of fresh air. ... I can attest that he has made major contributions with his unique strategies 
and teaching techniques. 
As shown above, the letters in the record do not establish that the Petitioner has made specific, identifiable 
contributions of demonstrable, corroborated significance to the field (rather than individual employers or 
other entities). 
F ollowin a re uest for evidence, the Petitioner submitted an 2019 article from Casino, regarding 
This article appeared several 
months after the filing date, and therefore cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The article quotes the Petitioner regarding the~---------~----,,--------=--~; the 
article does not identify any contributions by the Petitioner or attest to their significance. Instead, the 
Petitioner contends without support that we ought to infer such contributions because " t he fact that an 
organization as important as Casino.org consulted with the beneficiary regarding a~ _______ __. 
in the industry, speaks to the esteem in which the beneficiary is held." An email from the Casino reporter 
who wrote the article, asking the Petitioner for comments about the significance of I I 
7 
0 ] as well as insights from the Petitioner's "knowledge of probability/math," does not say why 
the reporter chose to contact the Petitioner or how the Petitioner came to the reporter's attention. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that his work is of value to various publishers, and that he teaches a popular course, 
but he has not established the required sustained national or international acclaim or a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Some evidence that 
purports to facially address the regulatory criteria does not withstand scrutiny, such as the Petitioner's 
authorship of what amounts to an advertisement formatted as a review, and what appears to be the 
commissioning of press releases to create the appearance of widespread publicity. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12092277 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a radiologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in musculoskeletal radiology, interventional radiology, and 
ultrasound. He trained at various medical schools in India and the United States, and is now a board 
certified radiologist. Since 2012, he has worked forl I I t 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iv), (vi), 
and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria numbered (ii), 
(v), and (ix). The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding criterion (iii), 
relating to published material. (In initially claiming to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner did not submit 
1 In 2014,LJ filed an immigrant petition seeking a different classification on the Petitioner's behalf. That petition was 
approved in 2015. 
2 
or identify any published material in the record that names him.) We therefore consider the Petitioner to 
have abandoned that criterion. 2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfies 
the criteria numbered (iv) and (vi), and we further conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied criterion 
(ix). We will discuss the remaining criteria below. As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies 
three criteria, we will also evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination further below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner documents membership in seven medical associations, and asserts that they require 
outstanding achievements of their members. As supporting references, the Petitioner identifies the 
websites of some of these associations, thereby introducing them into the record. For others, the Petitioner 
submits copies of the bylaws. The website of the I I does not address 
membership requirements at all. The materials from other associations do not list requirements beyond 
board certification, experience, member sponsorship (in some instances), and payment of dues or 
application fees. 
The Petitioner asserts that "[b ]oard certification is a demanding process," and therefore any membership 
that requires board certification is a qualifying membership, but the Petitioner has not established that 
board certification is an outstanding achievement rather than a credential with rigorous requirements. The 
Petitioner also does not establish the percentage ofradiologists with board certification. This information 
is crucial because if most radiologists are board certified, then the Petitioner cannot credibly assert that 
board certification is a rare or special distinction in the specialty. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director improperly requested "information to establish that 
the individuals who review prospective members' applications are recognized as national or international 
experts in their disciplines or fields." This request, however, is wholly consistent with the regulatory 
requirement that members' achievements be 'judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields." We do not accept the Petitioner's contention that those who review 
membership applications are nationally recognized by virtue of being board certified radiologists. 
The Petitioner states: "Being board certified in radiology is considered an outstanding achievement in 
the medical field," but does not corroborate this claim. The Petitioner also states: "Out of many medical 
doctors in the world, only a few percentages [sic] are board certified in radiology." This assertion is true, 
but only because most "medical doctors" are not radiologists and therefore would have no reason to 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
pursue board certification in radiology. One's choice of specialty is not intrinsically an outstanding 
achievement. Furthermore, at other points in the record, the Petitioner asserts that his field is radiology, 
rather than the broader "medical field." The inconsistent definition of what constitutes his field further 
prevents the Petitioner from making a consistent case for eligibility. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner has published four scholarly articles. He states that these articles "are of major significance 
because the articles document work that is first of its kind." This assertion is not persuasive. The 
regulation requires contributions to be both "original" and "of major significance." The latter clause 
would be redundant if originality (i.e., being "first of its kind") inherently implied major significance. 
Furthermore, the Director acknowledged that these articles satisfy a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Originality appears to be a cornerstone requirement of scholarly publications. 3 The 
Petitioner has not shown otherwise. Therefore, by the Petitioner's reasoning, most published scholarly 
articles are also contributions of major significance. We will not interpret our regulations in such a 
manner that satisfaction of one criterion inherently implies satisfaction of a second; to do so would be 
contrary to the statutory demand for extensive documentation. 
Nevertheless, a particular scholarly article may contain an original contribution of major significance. 
Therefore, we will consider evidence of the impact of the Petitioner's scholarly articles. The Petitioner's 
graduate thesis concerned bronchoscopy, which produces images of the respiratory system using 
noninvasive methods such asl...-_,---__._, In letters in the record, colleagues claim that "[b ]ecause of [the 
Petitioner's] work in the field of.__ _ _. Bronchoscopy, it is now a routine noninvasive examination for 
diagnosing airway problems." To support this claim, it is not sufiicient to show thatl I bronchoscopy 
is widely used for the application discussed in the article; the Petitioner must also establish that it is widely 
used because of the Petitioner's work. This is a very important distinction, because the Petitioner does 
not claim to have invented I I bronchoscopy. The 19 documented citations do not establish that I lbronchoscopy is widely used for the specific clinical application described in the article, or that 
the Petitioner is largely responsible for the adoption of the technique. 
The Petitioner asserts that his "4 articles have earned unusually high numbers of citations in the context 
of radiology," and that he "has continued to publish material in his field with a steady increase in his 
citation levels over his publication history." The record does not support these claims. The assertion that 
the Petitioner "has continued to publish material" implies a fairly regular output, but three of the articles 
date from 2003-04, with no further publications until 2019, very shortly before the petition's filing date. 
3 "As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical 
discourse." USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form /-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https ://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
The Petitioner documents 19 citations ( over 15 years) of one of his articles, and five citations of another 
( over 16 years), at the time of filing; he does not document any citations of the others. The Petitioner 
does not provide sufficient evidence to show that his articles are heavily cited in comparison to others 
relating to similar subjects. A search engine printout listing ten such articles shows an article from 2004, 
cited 32 times; an article from 2008, cited 65 times; and an article from 2013, cited 27 times. A fourth 
article shows 19 citations, the same as the Petitioner's 2004 article, but this article appeared ten years later 
and therefore accumulated the same number of citations over a substantially shorter period. This very 
small sample does not support the claim that the Petitioner's "articles have earned unusually high numbers 
of citations," but a definitive conclusion would require considerably more evidence. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion through his critical roles forOand 
thel I We disagree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that initial exhibits N and T established the 
organizations' distinguished reputation. Exhibit N is a 2018 press release announcing□ s "three-year 
term of accreditation" relating to a particular medical procedure. The Petitioner does not submit objective 
evidence to establish that accreditation is a mark of distinction, rather than simply a matter of meeting 
certain professional standards. The Petitioner states that "this specific accreditation has only been granted 
to 1,928 out of 40,517 accreditations in over 34 years," but does not show that c=J,s accreditation is 
therefore more prestigious or otherwise distinguished than the other unspecified types of accreditation. 
The other accreditations may simply refer to other procedures. The burden is on the Petitioner to show 
thatO s accreditation is superior to, rather than simply different than, other types of accreditation. The 
Petitioner has not met this burden. 
The Petitioner also contends thatc=J "is one of the highest-ranked U.S. radiology center[s] outside of 
the continental U.S." Apart from being an unsubstantiated assertion, this description necessarily excludes 
most of the radiology centers in the United States. The Petitioner does not establish the number of U.S. 
radiology centers outside the continental United States, or cite any source that ranks them. 
Exhibit T is a letter from the executive director of the C7 stating that the Petitioner "has been a very 
active member" of the organization, which is '(omplrise[ d] of medical doctors and allied health care 
providers." This letter does not establish that the has a distinguished reputation in comparison with 
other state and territorial medical associations of its kind. The word "distinguished" is inherently 
comparative; status as a territorial-level medical association does not inherently convey distinction. The 
Petitioner has not established that thel lhas a national or international reputation, which is vital in the 
context of establishing national or international acclaim for a final merits determination. 
In the absence of evidence thatc=Jand theD have distinguished reputations, we need not consider 
the separate question of whether the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for those 
organizations. The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner earned a "base salary" much lower than his total compensation, 
but this conclusion was erroneously derived from pay receipts that subtracted paid leave from hours 
worked. Paid leave is not a fringe benefit in excess of base salary. The total pay shown on the pay receipts 
is consistent with the salary stated in a contract in the record. That total pay, in tum, is substantially higher 
than the median salary shown in data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. We conclude, therefore, that 
the Petitioner has commanded a high salary. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
In the final merits determination, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had satisfied the letter of 
three regulatory criteria, but determined that the evidence submitted under those criteria does not establish 
sustained acclaim or constitute extensive documentation ofrecognition of his achievements. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner's judging work consisted mainly of routine peer review, and that the 
Petitioner had not shown the impact of his published scholarly articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that his judging activity "is credible, probative and consistent with the 
finding that [he] has a career of acclaimed work in radiology." The Petitioner notes his service on the 
editorial board of the I !Medical Association Journal. The documentation of this service takes the 
form of email messages asking him to perform peer review of manuscripts submitted for publication; the 
Director noted that peer review of this kind is routine in the field, rather than a hallmark of acclaim. Those 
messages are dated after the petition's filing date, and thus do not show that the Petitioner had performed 
this function prior to filing the petition. Furthermore, the record does not show that the Journal (which 
published only one issue before the filing djte) en~oys a level of prestige such that membership on its 
editorial board indicates recognition beyond 
The Petitioner's other documented participation as a judge has been routine and local, consisting of 
faculty review of student work and a peer review program at ~ in which "each radiologist reviews 
other radiologists' work every quarter." Review at this level is neither contingent upon nor reflective of 
sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner acknowledges that "[g]enerally, an Assistant 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
G 
Professor [at a] medical school" is "required to assess and judge student coursework." It does not follow 
that every assistant professor is thereby nationally or internationally acclaimed, or has reached the top of 
the field. The Petitioner, on whom the burden of proof rests, has not shown that he engaged in judging 
activity beyond the routine duties inherent in those positions. 
In the denial notice, the Director referred directly to only one of the Petitioner's scholarly articles. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states that his four articles "demonstrated by preponderance of evidence that [the 
Petitioner] has a career of acclaimed work in radiology." A researcher might achieve acclaim through 
publication of scholarly articles, but the existence of those articles does not inherently establish that 
acclaim. The Petitioner has not established that only acclaimed radiologists have produced published 
work, and the Petitioner has not provided evidence that would meaningfully distinguish his articles from 
those of others in the field. Most of the Petitioner's published articles derive from a time when the 
Petitioner was completing his own medical training. 
The Petitioner contends that his published work reflects acclaim in the field, but the various arguments 
offered to support this proposition are not persuasive. For example, the Petitioner notes that he was a co­
author of "the I !Medical Journal's first article ever," and contends that this "is proof that his 
participation exceeds that of other researchers or reflects sustained acclaim." The Petitioner does not 
adequately explain this conclusion. There is no presumption of distinction for the inaugural issue of a 
new journal which, by definition, has no prior history of impact or influence on the field. The Petitioner 
does not establish that the appearance of the new journal attracted significant attention outside! I 
The Petitioner submits letters, mostly from colleagues, attesting to his skill as a physician. These 
colleagues have worked with the Petitioner, which gives them insight into his particular skills and 
activities, but does not reflect recognition at the national or international level as the statute and 
regulations demand. 
Perhaps most notably, the Governor ofLJ asserts that the Petitioner "possesses an exceptional talent." 
The Governor does not identify specific medical contributions, stating, instead, that it is difficult to recruit 
physicians to work in C7 Other individuals also assert that there is a shortage of qualified radiologists 
I I Nevertheless, addressing such a shortage is not a matter of sustained national or 
international acclaim. The local need for qualified workers is a legitimate factor in some other immigrant 
classifications, such as the one for which the Petitioner has already been approved. A priority date 
backlog in that classification is not a basis, in whole or in part, for approving :1other }etition in a much 
more restrictive classification. The value of the Petitioner's work for patients i is not tantamount 
to national or international acclaim. 
The record shows that the Petitioner is a competent and dedicated physician who has been very active 
within the local medical community, but it does not show that his work has attracted significant attention 
beyond the institutions where he has worked or studied, or that his most recent work has resulted in any 
discernible recognition beyond the I I Civic dedication and the possession of valuable 
skills do not amount to sustained national or international acclaim, nor do they place the Petitioner among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals with some degree of local prominence. Even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12305024 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher specializing in computational imaging, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate in electrical engineering from the University of I L conducting research involving imaging of I I objects. Since~r_e_c-ei-v-in-g-h1-. s_d_e_g-re-e-in~ 
2016, the Petitioner has worked as a hardware development engineer atl I developing imaging 
technology used inl I cameras. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (v). The Petitioner does 
1 In January 2019 ,c=J filed an immigrant petition seeking to classify the present Petitioner as an outstanding researcher 
under section 203(b )(1 )(B) of the Act. That petition was approved, and subsequent filings indicate that the Petitioner 
remains ate=]. The Petitioner has since filed a third (still pending) immigrant petition, even though he remains the 
beneficiary of an approved first-preference immigrant petition. 
2 
not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the other previously claimed criteria, and therefore 
we consider those issues to be abandoned. 2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met criteria (iv) and (vi), and we conclude that he also meets criterion (v), as explained below. Because 
the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claims four research contributions, described in these words: 
• 
• 
• 
• Source shifting pixel .........,~---~with incorporation of pixel function for lens-
free I I imaging; 
Lens-free Imaging using I I approach; 
Propagation Phasor Aqproach, a unified mathematical framework for lens-free and 
lens-basedl Jimaging theory; and .-----------, Pioneering work in developing compact,.__ _______ _. imaging systems for 
.__ ______________ _. 1magmg. 
The Petitioner's research atl lled to several patents and journal articles. The Petitioner has 
established heavy citation of some of his articles. 3 Also, he has worked on projects that attracted the 
attention of some significant media outlets that cover science and technology. We agree with the 
Petitioner that the Director did not give sufficient weight to this evidence. Because this evidence is 
sufficient to meet the criteri1n, we yed not discuss, here, additional claims regarding the significance of 
the Petitioner's later work at 
The Petitioner has, thus, satisfied three of the evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner has thereby cleared one 
evidentiary threshold, but this, by itself: does not presumptively establish eligibility. Next, we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that "a goodly number" of citations "may be probative 
of the significance of the alien's contributions to the field of endeavor"). 
3 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record, as a whole, does not establish that the Petitioner, as an individual, has earned sustained 
national or international acclaim in his field. Rather, the Petitioner studied for his doctorate at a laboratory 
that was already very highly regarded, led by a professor whose own reputation appears to surpass the 
Petitioner's own by a very substantial margin. The attention that the Petitioner's projects have earned is 
predominantly collective, rather than conveying acclaim specifically on the Petitioner. In response to a 
request for evidence, the Petitioner stated that his work was "one of the critical contributions that won [a] 
research award" from the but the award was described as a "Standard 
Grant," awarded to th ,__ _ ___, ab in 2010, before the Petitioner arrived there. The document cites the 
Petitioner's work not as a basis for the grant, but rather as part of a list of 73 "publications produced as a 
result of [the funded] research." The Petitioner is a credited co-author of 10 of these 73 articles, rather 
than a consistently central member of the research team. 
The Petitioner's resume, submitted with the petition, lists three journal articles published after the 
Petitioner leftl lin 2016; and in all three of those articles, his co-authors include other members of 
thel kesearch group. This indicates that his most recent author credits incorporate work from his 
graduate study rather than the products of significant ongoing participation in research for publication. 
Furthermore, while the Petitioner has established the significance of work he undertook luringl his 
graduate studies at I l the record does not show that the Petitioner's subsequent work at has 
attracted comparable attention. Thel I laboratory may have earned a collective reputation for 
important contributions, but this reputation does not necessarily follow individual alumni after they 
complete their graduate or postgraduate training there. As such, the record does not show that the 
Petitioner has achieved sustained acclaim in his field as the statute requires. 
Regarding his more recent empllyment,
1 the Petitioner asserts that~ has incorporated his work into 
"[ e ]very generation and model of since 2016." The Petitioner adds: "The revenue generated from 
the sales ofthel ~hat implemented [the Petitioner's] original contributions reached approximately 
$535,544 Million ... from Quarter 3, 2016 to Quarter 1, 2020." These figures indicate that the Petitioner's 
work is widely available, owing to its incorporation into very popular consumr prodrts, but this does 
not imply that the Petitioner is personally responsible for a significant share of sales revenue, or 
that he is an acclaimed figure in his field by virtue of his work withl I 
Apart from the attention given to certain high-profile projects atl I the record does not show a 
consistent picture of sustained acclaim or place the Petitioner at the very top of his field. His judging 
activity has consisted of what appears to be routine peer review. He initially claimed awards and 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that adjudicating officers should then evaluate 
the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
memberships to satisfy other evidentiary criteria, but the awards consist of an internal certificate from his 
then-employer and a financial aid scholarship. The Petitioner did not show that his memberships are 
restrictive rather than widely available to those in his field; the associations documented in the record 
claim between 55,000 and 442,000 members, not compatible with exclusive or restrictive membership 
requirements, and even then he is an "Early Career Professional Member" of one such society. The 
Petitioner's involvement in heavily-cited research projects during his doctoral studies does not outweigh 
this evidence. 
Researchers at various institutions provided letters in support of the petition. Most of these letters are 
from individuals who state they have not worked with the Petitioner. Such letters are useful when 
explaining the nature of the Petitioner's contributions, but do not necessarily represent the overall 
consensus within the field as to the significance of those contributions. Furthermore, the record does not 
establish the circumstances under which the Petitioner obtained the letters, and therefore the existence of 
those letters does not strongly support the conclusion that the Petitioner is widely known in his field. 
The various letters contain many assertions about potential applications and benefits of the Petitioner's 
work, stating for instance that it "could ... serve as an important building block of efficient telemedicine" 
and "could directly benefit the already existing conventional I I by boosting their I I I I product." Another letter indicates that the Petitioner's "invention has provided a sensitive, 
field-portable, and cost-effective method that enables the practice of imaging-based! I 
and! !testing even in field settings," but the record does not show the extent, if any, to which 
the field has actually implemented the Petitioner's work in this way. Speculation about benefits that may 
eventually arise from the Petitioner's work does not carry the same weight as objective evidence of 
existing impact and influence. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Rather, the record suggests transitory, collective recognition resulting 
from the Petitioner's graduate studies atl [ 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10980551 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a rowing coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner filed a motion to reconsider . The Director granted the motion and affirmed the prior 
decision. The Petitioner then appealed the Director's decision, and we dismissed the appeal. The matter 
is now before us on a motion to reconsider . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). We 
may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration , a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements . See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
After a highly successful career as a competitive rower, the Petitioner began a coaching career that 
has included work at theLJ Rowing Association I land thel I Rowing Association 
I I 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, 1 he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that some of his medals qualify as major, internationally recognized awards, but we 
concluded otherwise, and the Petitioner does not pursue this claim on motion. 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
In our appellate decision, taking into account the Petitioner's activity both as a coach and as an athlete 
in his own right, we determined that he had satisfied three criteria, numbered (i), (ii), and (viii). In the 
final merits determination, we concluded that the Petitioner had established sustained national or 
international acclaim as an athlete, but had not achieved comparable acclaim as a coach. This 
distinction is crucial because the Petitioner seeks employment in the United States as a coach rather 
than as an athlete. 
The Petitioner's arguments on motion center around 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires 
documentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. In our appellate decision, we concluded that the rowing crews that 
the Petitioner has coached won competitions and awards at the regional level, but not the national or 
international level. On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we misinterpreted and undervalued evidence 
regarding the I I Regatta I I, an annual rowing competition inl I 
Massachusetts, promoted as "the world's largest two-day rowing event." 
The Petitioner states: "Petitioner's athletes, and thereby Petitioner himself, won two gold and two 
bronze medals" at the I I In his brief on motion, the Petitioner quotes from letters previously 
submitted in support of the petition, attesting to the importance of thel land asserting that the 
performance of a team reflects on the skill and reputation of its coach. 
The Petitioner previously submitted evidence showing that teams fromc=] andc=Jwon medals at 
the I I in 2015 and 2017, respectively. The head coach of U.S. National Rowing Team 
(USRowing) states that four of the "masters' boats [ the Petitioner] coached" medaled at thee=] 
Other letters contain similar assertions, but these letters are not from individuals who worked atLJ 
ore=] 
A coach froml lstates that the Petitioner "co-coached" two medal-winning teams at the 2015 ~-~I but he does not clarify the extent or timing of the Petitioner's involvement. The head coach 
of US Rowing states that the Petitioner "started I I :s an assistant masters' coach" but "was 
soon tapped for a head junior coaching position." Thel trews that won medals at the 2015 I I 
were in the masters age class, not juniors, and the record does not establish that the Petitioner was 
directly involved with these crews at the time of the I I 
Statements from other officials atl landc=J provide even less corroboration. A November 2016 
letter froni Is executive director and head coach does not indicate that the Petitioner had any role 
with the medaling crews at the 2015 I I. Rather, she states that the Petitioner "is currently working 
toward his Level II Coac
1hing tertification and is leading coaching clinics within our organization." 
In an August 2018 letter, s former board president states that the Petitioner coached "crews that 
3 
... won gold and silver medals" at regional events, but she does not mention thel I Likewise, a 
September 2018 letter from D s director includes many details of the Petitioner's work there, but 
gives no indication that the Petitioner coached the winning I lcrews. Given the Petitioner's 
emphasis on the I Is reputation as an important international event, these omissions are 
significant. 
A blog post on Os own website, published immediately after the 20171 I states thatD 
teams won gold medals in two events. The article names several~ coaches, but does not mention 
the Petitioner's name at all. A 201 7 Dress release, which announced the hiring of the Petitioner 
and two other coaches, did not indicate that the Petitioner coached medaling crews at the 2015 I I 
Given the above evidence, it is significant that the individuals who state that the Petitioner coached 
the medaling crews do not appear to have been in a position to witness, and thus personally attest to, 
the nature and extent of his work with those teams. The first-hand and contemporaneous evidence 
does not consistently show that the Petitioner coached the crews that won the medals. 
For the above reasons, the record is, at best, inconsistent lith resp1ct to the degree of the Petitioner's 
involvement with coaching teams that won medals at the Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that our prior discussion of thel I included errors that affected the outcome of the 
appellate decision. That discussion is the focal issue in the Petitioner's motion. As a result, the 
Petitioner has not established that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the 
time of that appellate decision. 
The motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and therefore must be dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11063 773 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a ballet dancer and teacher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision. Therefore, we cannot 
consider new objections to the earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make 
new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
2 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's career in Europe encompassed work as a dancer, choreographer, producer, and 
teacher. He later entered the United States as an 0-1 nonimmigrant, where he has taught at various 
dance schools. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, 
numbered (iv) and (vii). On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria 
numbered (i) and (viii). The Petitioner does not contend that we erred in our conclusions regarding 
the other previously claimed criteria. 
After reviewing the Petitioner's motion, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three criteria, for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims to have received two qualifying awards. In our dismissal notice, we concluded 
that the Petitioner had not established national or international recognition for either award. 
In our appellate decision, we noted that the Petitioner had submitted a photograph of "what appears to 
be a poster or flier advertising the.__ _________ _. award ceremony," which listed several 
names, including that of the Petitioner. We noted that, without an English translation, "it is not clear 
whether those listed were award winners, the scheduled performers at the award ceremony, or both." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a new English translation of the flier, which does clarify the issue. 
The translated flier lists the Petitioner as one of several entertainers who "will brighten the evening" 
by performing at the award ceremony. Therefore, the flier and its translation are not documentation 
of the Petitioner's receipt of the award. 
The Petitioner notes that the flier refers to the I IA ward as an "International A ward" ("Premio 
Internazionale"). The awarding entity's own use of this term is not evidence of the prize's recognition 
outside of the awarding organization itself 
3 
The Petitiond had previously submitted supporting letters from the president of the cultural club that 
organized th A wards from 1984 to 1992 and from an Italian television personality who was 
one of the presenters at the award ceremony. In our appellate decision, we acknowledged these letters, 
but stated: "If the award is or was in fact considered one of the most important awards that can be 
earned by artists and entertainers in Italy as [claimed], it is reasonable to expect independent evidence 
regarding the award and the national recognition associated with it." Because the Petitioner did not 
submit any such independent evidence, we concluded that the Petitioner had not established that the 
I !Award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits new letters from the same two individuals. Because both people 
were closely involved with thel IAwards, their letters are not direct evidence of recognition of 
the awards outside of the presenting organization itself. The Petitioner cites no independent 
corroboration of the claims in the letters. Furthermore, letters written nearly 30 years after the fact do 
not suffice to show that the I IA wards attracted significant attention or recognition in 1991. 
The other award under consideration isl I which the Petitioner received in 2007. After 
reviewing the record, we determined: "The submitted evidence reflects that thel I award 
is intended to recognize natives of I lor the I I region who have gone on to achieve 
prominence in their respective fields," thus greatly limiting the award's scope and contradicting the 
Petitioner's earlier claim that "there are no ... limitations placed on competitors." The Petitioner does 
not directly address or rebut this determination. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a letter from a photographer who received al I Award 
at the same time as the Petitioner. This individual states that the award ceremony was "an 
extraordinary gala evening," during which "other very famous people" also received the award. An 
award recipient's opinion of the award does not establish national or international recognition of that 
award. 
The Petitioner contends that the award receives significant media coverage, but he does not show, on 
motion, that this coverage extent beyonl I I Italy. A previously submitted article 
about the awards is from a loca publication; a second article is from an unidentified source, 
as we noted previously. 
The Petitioner has not introduced material new facts that would change our conclusions regarding the 
claimed awards, and he has not shown that we erred in our appellate decision with respect to those 
awards. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner previously claimed leading or critical roles for various organizations and events. On 
motion, the Petitioner focuses on two organizations: the Associazione Generale Italiana dello 
Spettacolo (AGIS) (a trade union for entertainers), and the~------------~ (a 
theatrical group and school). 
4 
We determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his role with AGIS was leading or critical. 
The initial evidence indicated that the Petitioner had served as "coordinator of the dance division of 
AGIS of~-------~' indicating that the Petitioner's position was at a regional subdivision. 
This evidence did not establish that the Petitioner's regional position was leading or critical for AGIS 
as a whole, or that the I ~ regional subdivision has a distinguished reputation in its own 
right. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits two new letters. A choreographer who preceded the Petitioner as a 
regional coordinator describes the Petitioner's election to the post and some of the initiatives that the 
Petitioner undertook in that position. The letter does not specify whether AGIS implemented the 
Petitioner's work beyond the regional level, and the Petitioner does not submit national-level 
documentation that might have clarified the point. 
The secretary of the same regional office asserts that "thanks to the ... initiatives undertaken by [the 
Petitioner] in the function of [his] mandate as Coordinator, the sector has seen an increase in the 
number of members and achieve[d] important objectives for the whole of AGIS." The official does 
not elaborate, and the motion does not include evidence from AGIS beyond the regional level. 
On motion, a director and choreographer who worke~ attests to the Petitioner's leading role 
as the organization's founder and president, and thatl__J "was thl top j'alianl I school of its 
time," but the statements of an employee do not suffice to establish s reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts, on motion, that c=J' s "reputation . . . is evidenced by the long list of 
productions the company has put on," as well as the caliber of artists whom it employed. A "long list 
of productions" attests to the company's viability but does not necessarily indicate a ~uished 
reputation. The claimed reputations of past employees is, at best, an indirect reflection onl__J s own 
reputation. 
The Petitioner states that he "previously submitted various website and newspaper articles attesting to 
~------~l's success in the industry. Their productions were revered world-wide as the 
articles talk about the popularity of the shows and its reception from th~e." Most of the articles 
in question are preview pieces for then-upcomingc=]productions inl__J. Such previews appear 
to amount to routine promotion of local performances, rather than a privilege inherently reserved for 
distinguished theatrical organizations. (One of the submitted items appears to be incomplete, 
comprising only a headline and one sentence; it is not clear whether the piece derives from a preview 
of an upcoming performance or a review of a performance that had already taken place.) The 
Petitioner does not explain how these four articles about gerformances in I I Italy 
demonstrate "world-wide" recognition fo~or establish thatl lhas a distinguished reputation 
compared to other theater companies. 
The Petitioner has not introduced material new facts that would change our conclusions regarding his 
role at AG1s, anl he has not shown that we erred in our appellate decision with respect to his roles at 
AGIS or at 
5 
The remainder of the Petitioner's brief on motion concerns the claim that the Petitioner has achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim. The issue of such acclaim is relevant in the context of the 
final merits determination. Because the Petitioner has not shown that he meets at least three of the ten 
threshold criteria from 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not proceed to a final merits determination 
that would address the larger issue of sustained acclaim. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18487978 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an artist, studied at the National Academy of Fine Arts and Architecture, Department 
of Painting, inc=] Russia. He claims that he has worked as a painter and has displayed his works 
at numerous venues and exhibitions. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met six of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary criteria pertaining to judging 
the work of others and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, published material, and original contributions of major 
significance to his field. The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he meets the criteria 
related to memberships in associations in the field that require outstanding achievements of their 
members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not 
address this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criteria related to judging and artistic display. However, the record does 
not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence in his field, and provided 
a two-page list of his claimed awards in a letter accompanying the petition. The Director 
acknowledged his submission of various certificates of achievement, and documentation establishing 
his receipt of awards including a 2019 gold medal froml land a 2019 diploma from 
thd I Directorate for Internal Affairs, but determined that the 
Petitioner had not demonstrated that the referenced awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized. Although the Director requested additional evidence demonstrating that these awards 
were nationally or internationally recognized in a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner declined 
to submit such evidence. Instead, the Petitioner submitted documentation demonstrating his receipt 
of additional awards that he received subsequent to the filing of the etition which the Director 
declined to consider. 1 The Petitioner also submitted a letter from Fine Arts Chair 
at the.__ ________ ___. stating that the Petitioner won a gold medal at th ~---~Fine 
Art exhibition contest. However, no corroborating evidence documenting the Petitioner's receipt of 
this award or demonstrating its national or international recognition was submitted. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous because he "has submitted 
extensive evidence demonstrating the national significance of his awards." He argues that "the 
evidence on the record here unequivocally demonstrates that [his] prizes and/or awards are in no way 
local in nature, but rather are major, nationally and internationally recognized awards in the field of 
fine arts." 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. While the Petitioner submitted documentation 
demonstrating his receipt of several certificates, a diploma, and a gold medal, these documents alone 
do not demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field. The Petitioner did not submit any other documentary evidence demonstrating 
that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence, despite the 
Director's request for such documentation. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires that 
"[documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." Simply submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt 
of prizes and awards is not sufficient to meet this criterion unless the Petitioner submits evidence 
establishing that the prizes and awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that he received the above-referenced prizes or awards, 
he did not submit sufficient documentary evidence, such as the selection criteria for the acclaim 
associated with the awards or evidence that the awards garnered of national or international-level 
1 As noted by the Director, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). As these prizes or 
awards were awarded subsequent to the filing of the petition in February 2020, they cannot establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility as of the date of filing, and we need not evaluate whether they otherwise satisfy the regulatory requirements of 
this criterion. 
3 
media coverage, to demonstrate that his prizes or awards satisfy the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, 
we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted several articles which the Director found insufficient. 
In the RFE, the Director noted that several of the submitted articles did not include the author, and further 
found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that the circulation of the submitted media was indicative 
of professional or major trade publications or other major media. In response, the Petitioner submitted 
additional articles, more information pertaining to the originally submitted articles, and a transcript of 
a radio interview. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence 
to satisfy this criterion, noting that several articles lacked the name of the author, where others were not 
supported by citation statistics. The Director also declined to afford evidentiary weight to the 
Petitioner's radio interview as it was not published material consistent with the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Regarding the additional documentation submitted in response 
to the RFE, the Director found these submissions insufficient. The Director noted that while the Petitioner 
asserted that the submitted articles were published in major media or professional or trade publications, 
he did not supplement the record with evidence such as published circulation statistics from an official 
or independent website or other publicly available source. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director failed to properly analyze information regarding the media, and asserts that he "has submitted 
detailed information regarding the circulation and popularity of the media at issue." 
We do not find the Petitioner's appellate assertions sufficient. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
two articles published in Russkaya Reklama, along with an overview of the publication from the 
organization itself. The Petitioner also supplemented the record in response to the RFE with 
information about Offer a Job and Zlagoda, publications which also featured articles about the 
4 
Petitioner. 2 The Director found this evidence insufficient to establish that these publications were 
professional or major trade publications or other major media as contemplated by the regulation, and 
we concur with that conclusion. The evidence relating to each of these publications is in the form of 
a statement from the publication itself rather than published circulation statistics from an official or 
independent website or other publicly available source. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at 
*7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we did not have 
to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status 
as major media). For these reasons, the referenced articles do not satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided a biographical excerpt published in Who 's Who in Ukraine, along with 
an excerpt from the organization's website explaining the nature of the publication. According to the 
publisher, Who's Who in Ukraine is a series of books that include the biographies of individuals in 
various sectors of economic activity in the Ukraine that are distributed free of charge, and such 
biographies are maintained in a digital encyclopedia at www.who-is-who.ua. According to this 
statement, the Petitioner's brief biography appeared along numerous other brief biographies in one of the 
various editions of the book, and appears along with approximately 150,000 other biographies in the 
publisher's digital encyclopedia. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), however, expressly 
requires evidence of the author of the published material. Here, it does not appear that the Petitioner's 
profile with no byline in a directory included among tens of thousands of other individuals is the type of 
published material contemplated by the regulation. The evidence does not reflect an author of the book 
or its date of publication (aside from the date range of 2003-2004), and as such does not meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that the acceptance of 
his artwork by the professional artistic community and its inclusion in various artistic forums and 
galleries, along with several reference letters commenting on these achievements, demonstrate his 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his artwork through recommendation letters praising him for his works, the authors do not provide 
specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of the articles and publications, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
5 
recount the Petitioner's artistic achievements but do not demonstrate that his contributions in the field 
of fine arts have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director's discounting of the numerous opinion letters he submitted was erroneous. Upon review of 
the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements of this criterion. 
For example, the letter froml I discussed previously above, indicates that the author, 
in his professional opinion, believes that the Petitioner's works "definitely display his ability to 
become a successful artist." While the letter shows promise in the Petitioner's artistic abilities, it does 
not establish how his artwork already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, 
rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
The updated letter froml I founder and owner of I I' inl I and 
Director and Board Member of the I I in I I New Jersey, 
discussed the occasions during which she viewed the Petitioner's work on display, and noted that she 
facilitated his invitation to display his work atl I While we acknowledge that the public 
display of his work is an impressive accomplishment, any art with exposure such as the Petitioner's 
can be viewed as contributing to the field. It must also be demonstrated that such contributions are of 
major significance in the field. To rise to the level of contributions of major significance, the 
Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on similar artists and similar works of art. 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met 
this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). Althougtt I 
recognizes the Petitioner's talents within her letter and asserts that the display of his work at the various 
venues she discusses is a significant accomplishment, she does not provide the nexus between his 
talents and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements and 
discuss his career as an artist. However, the authors do not provide a description of how the 
Petitioner's works of art, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance 
with the regulation. The letters, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues, primarily contain broad 
attestations of the Petitioner's talents and the significance of his work without providing specific 
examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion .. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. I 756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of his work, the record does not show 
how his paintings and artwork have had a majorly significant impact in the field, have significantly 
influenced the work of other artists, or otherwise equate to original artistic contributions of major 
significance in the field. The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's paintings and 
4 See id. 
5 See id.; see also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
works of a1i have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply stating that 
the work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has majorly impacted 
the field of fine arts is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments and 
their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's artwork has had 
a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major significance .. 6 
The opinions of experts in the field are not without weight and have been considered above. While 
such letters can provide important details about the Petitioner's skills, they cannot form the cornerstone 
of a successful extraordinary ability claim. USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron International , 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an alien's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on several of our non-precedent decision as well as Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) in support of the assertion that the Director should have accepted 
the expert opinion letters as evidence. Specifically, the Petitioner states that the court in Buletini "held 
that expert statements respecting the Petitioner's contributions must be fully considered, even if the 
expert opinions came from people who knew or had worked with the Beneficiary." Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1232. Regarding the contributions criterion, the Buletini court was referring to the 
Director's failure to consider all the forms of evidence that the Petitioner in that case submitted such 
as the book he authored, the Petitioner's medical dictionary he authored, and the Petitioner's study 
that appeared in the largest circulation newspaper in the Petitioner's home nation. Id. at 1232-1233. 
These are forms of evidence that the Buletini court determined the Director had failed to consider; the 
court did not indicate that the Director was required to discuss each and every piece of evidence within 
the record. Moreover, although the Petitioner references non-precedent decisions by our office, these 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not provide analysis of how any of his work as an artist has 
significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner references the fact that his work has been displayed in 
top artistic venues including thel I and points to the "unequivocal acceptance of his 
artwork by the professional artistic community." While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work 
has been displayed in various venues, the record does not contain evidence to establish this relevance, 
such as evidence that these venues and galleries recognize artwork that has influenced the field as 
opposed to recognizing quality paintings and other works of art. Here, while the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that his works are admired by others in the field, he has not demonstrated that they have 
influenced similar artists and similar works of art. Again, while any art with exposure such as the 
Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, he must also demonstrate that his contributions 
are of major significance . 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10994402 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an interior designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that she intends to continue working 
in the area of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the design director at the I I Branch otj I I She intends to open a d1.,..e_s~ig-n-st_u_d~i-o~in--rl -----"l--____J 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other three claimed evidentiary criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's conclusion regarding criterion (viii). After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets two additional criteria, numbered (i) and 
(iii), for the reasons explained below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's initial submission included information about various prizes, but the evidence was 
ambiguous as to whether or not she had actually received those prizes. The Petitioner's response to a 
request for evidence included more definitive documentation of her receipt of the prizes. The Director 
2 
discounted the awards, stating that they "appear to have local sponsors." The Petitioner has shown that, 
while some events are named for a particular locality, their reputation is broader. The Petitioner did not 
receive the highest-level prizes available at those events (for instance, her works were named "Excellent" 
rather than "Best"), but the Petitioner has satisfactorily established the national recognition of her prizes. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Sina Home published two interviews with the Petitioner, discussing her work. (Other media coverage in 
the record is less persuasive.) The Director noted that the publications were "posted to web portals," and 
stated: "Documents from web portals, domains, blogs, and social media are not accepted because there 
are no assurances about the reliability of content from these open, user-edited sites." 
The Director is correct to observe that sites hosting publicly editable, user-generated content lack indicia 
ofreliability and warrant very limited probative weight in immigration proceedings. Matter of L-A-C-, 
26 I&N Dec. 516 (BIA 2015), citing Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F .3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008); see also 
Bing Shun Liv. Holder, 400 Fed.Appx. 854, 857-58 (5th Cir. 2010). These holdings, however, do not 
uniformly discredit all online media, and the record does not indicate that Sina Home is an open, user­
edited site comparable to Wikipedia or Baidu Baike. 
The Director also stated: "While it is true that these pages are widely available, the record does not show 
that these articles are widely read." The printouts in the record, however, actually provide readership 
information with greater precision than is possible for print articles. (A publisher can document the 
number of copies sold of a given newspaper or magazine, but cannot show how many purchasers actually 
read any one specific article.) 
The Sina Home articles include videos of the interviews with the Petitioner. The printouts show high 
view counts, which are particularly significant because they do not merely represent the website's overall 
traffic; they pertain to the specific videos shown. The evidence supports the conclusion that Sina Home 
qualifies as major media. 
The Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submits letters from several prominent interior designers, who attest to the Petitioner's 
accomplishments and reputation within her field. These individuals, however, do not establish the major 
significance of specific, original contributions that the Petitioner has made. Asserting that her work has 
won awards does not suffice in this regard; awards fall under a separate category, already discussed. The 
awarding of a prize does not imply that the prize-winning work is an original contribution of major 
significance; rather, it shows that the work is superior to other works entered into the same competition. 
3 
General praise for the Petitioner's talent and skill does not identify specific contributions or establish the 
significance of those contributions. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. Nevertheless, she has satisfied three others, as discussed 
above. Therefore, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the record as a whole supports a 
determination of eligibility. 
The Petitioner has served as a leading designer at a major design firm. Her villa design for~I --~ 
~----~I is one of several projects that won awards and attracted significant media attention in 
her field. The record demonstrates not only consistent success, but prominence, through high-profile 
projects and an important role with a nationally recognized design company. Taken as a whole, the 
evidence spanning several years indicates that the Petitioner has achieved not only success, but 
prominence, in her field of endeavor. 
C. Continued Work in the Field 
The Petitioner plans to invest $80,000 to establish a design studio inl land serve as its 
chief designer. The Petitioner explains why she chose the location, provides details about how the 
studio would operate, and explains how her strengths would appeal to her target clientele. 
In denying the petition, the Director stated: "the record does not show the feasibility of opening such 
a studio with the amount of cash cited [in] the letter. The record does not show these fonds are 
available as of the priority date of the petition." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires clear evidence that the Petitioner is coming to the 
United States to continue to work in the area of expertise. Further, the regulation indicates that the 
Petitioner can meet this requirement with "a statement ... detailing plans on how he or she intends to 
continue his or her work in the United States." The Director did not sufficiently explain why the 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
Petitioner's statement does not satisfy this requirement. With respect to the availability of funds, 
businesses routinely borrow start-up funds; there is no implicit requirement that the Petitioner had to 
have all necessary cash in hand before she filed the petition. The record does not give cause to doubt 
the Petitioner's intention to continue working as an interior designer, and her past work as a high­
ranking designer at a major firm indicates that the Petitioner has the necessary knowledge and 
experience to run a studio as she plans to do. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim in her field 
and submitted extensive documentation of her achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that she 
intends to continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that her entry will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8721820 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a foreign trade executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. We came to the 
same conclusion within our decision on appeal. The Petitioner now submits a motion to reconsider 
and asserts that he meets four additional criteria as well as the one criterion we decided in his favor in 
our appellate decision. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . 2 Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."3 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 4 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements of a 
motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). If warranted, we may grant requests that 
satisfy these requirements, then make a new eligibility determination. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging but that he had not satisfied any of the other criteria. 
When we dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, we agreed that he met the judging criterion, we further 
determined that he met the leading or critical role criterion, but ultimately concluded that he did not satisfy 
any other claimed provisions: prizes or awards; membership; published material; original 
contributions; or high salary or remuneration. 
Within the motion, the Petitioner addresses the criteria relating to prizes or awards; membership; 
published material; and original contributions. However, for the reasons discussed below, we 
determine that the Petitioner has not established that our decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy as required to meet the 
requirements for filing a motion to reconsider. 
A. Procedural Shortcoming 
As an initial issue, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5( a)(l )(iii) requires that a motion must be accompanied 
by a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding. We note 
that the Petitioner did not submit a statement relating to this mandate. Pertaining to this shortcoming, the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that a motion that does not meet applicable requirements 
shall be dismissed. As the Petitioner did not provide the required statement, the motion must be dismissed 
based on this essential regulatory requirement. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 5 We do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion to reconsider. We note 
that disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to 
policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence, is not a ground to reconsider our decision. 6 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Within our decision on the appeal, we discussed six awards; five of which did not list the Petitioner as 
the recipient. For those outstanding five awards, the Petitioner's employer, I I 
5 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
6 See Matter of 0-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56. 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the 
party may submit in essence. the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
2 
...._ _________________ ___., was the recipient of the awards. The only award 
naming the Petitioner as its recipient was the Order of Business Merit 2009 from the .... I ___ _, 
Academy of Arts, Culture, and History, and he does not contest our determination relating to this 
particular award. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that awards issued to a corporation cannot be categorically rejected. 
In support of this asserted error on our part, the Petitioner cites to what he claims is the Adjudicator's 
Field Manual, which has since been incorporated into the users Policy Manual. 7 The text the 
Petitioner quotes attempting to show our appellate decision was incorrect does not exist within the 
resource he cites. It appears that the Petitioner's quote can be attributed to an interim version of a 
users policy memorandum from August 2010. 8 However, a final policy rescinded and superseded 
that interim memorandum in December of that same year. As a result, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated our conclusion was incorrect that, in this instance, the five awards issued to his employer 
do not satisfy the awards criterion. 9 
We note that the regulation contains two mandatory elements: (1) that the alien is the recipient of the 
accolades, and (2) that the prizes or awards be nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field. Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated we erred as it relates to the first element, it 
is unnecessary for us to analyze his other claims on motion relating to whether the awards issued to 
his employer received national or international recognition . 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that we erred in our determination for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his position as a member, 
founder, and former vice president of the...._ ____________________ __, I I. The Director held that while the Petitioner had established his membership in ___ he 
had not shown that this association requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. In our appellate decision, we 
discussed the organization's bylaws noting they reflected several membership levels, to include 
founding members . We noted that the record lacked evidence relating to the organization's criteria 
for board membership or its selection process. This meant the Petitioner did not demonstrate that to 
be appointed to its board, I I required outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. 
7 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F, https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual. 
8 See users Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 , Evaluation of Evidentiary Criteria in Certain Form 1-140 Petitions 
(AFM Update AD 10-41) 5 (Aug. 18, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
9 The Petitioner also references to one unpublished 2005 decision from this office. While 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that 
our precedent decisions are binding on all users employees in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are 
not similarly binding. We may consider the reasoning within the unpublish ed decision; however, the analysis does not 
have to be followed as a matter oflaw. Notably, the Petitioner does not offer any information relating to that 2005 decision 
in an attempt to demonstrat e how that case and the present one might correlate. 
3 
On motion, the Petitioner claims we did not follow USCIS policy on this issue, and we did not consider 
the letter from~---------~ As it relates to USCIS policy on the matter, it states: 
"Associations may have multiple levels of membership. The level of membership afforded to the alien 
must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national 
or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought."10 The Petitioner posits that because he "was judged by experts and highly 
qualified individuals in the field and that he was elected due with renowned and outstanding 
achievements," that he demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
However, within this statement, the Petitioner did not address the regulatory language that mandates 
the organization itself requires outstanding achievements of its members ( at the membership level in 
question). This regulation requires that (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally 
recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the 
achievements are outstanding, and (2) the associations require this outstanding determination as a 
condition of eligibility for prospective membership. The Petitioner's claim that he "was judged by 
experts and highly qualified individuals" and those individuals granted him board membership 
because of his achievements lacks the final salient element that the organization demands outstanding 
achievements as a prerequisite. The Petitioner did not offer evidence relating to I Is board 
membership requirements. We noted this shortcoming in our appellate decision when we stated: "The 
record does not demonstrate, however, the organization's criteria for board membership or its selection 
process." On motion, the Petitioner does not establish that this determination was incorrect based on 
the record as it then existed. 
Turning to~------~ s letter, the Petitioner did not present this evidence as applying to this 
criterion within the appeal brief Therefore, it is not apparent how our appellate decision could have 
been incorrect based on the Petitioner's claims and evidence in the record at that time. This is 
insufficient to claim as a basis for a motion to reconsider. 11 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not shown our decision was incorrect under this criterion based on 
the evidence in the record when we made our appellate decision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner's evidence under this criterion consisted of articles published between 2010 and 2013 
in a newspaper and on multiple websites. Within our appellate decision, we determined that the 
provided articles were not about the Petitioner, instead focusing on projects and merely mentioned or 
quoted him in discussing those projects. We farther noted that articles that are not about the Petitioner 
do not establish eligibility for this criterion and we cited to Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-
10 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
11 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
4 
RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) in which the court upheld a finding that articles about a show are 
not about the actor. 
On motion, the Petitioner does not cite to any pertinent precedent decisions to support his contention 
that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy.12 Instead, he states 
that "[a]ll the material submitted is related to the Petitioner and his work in the field of foreign trade." 
At best, the Petitioner identifies an unpublished decision from this office that granted the published 
material criterion, and he claims that the scenario in that case correlates with the present petition. 
First, while 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that our precedent decisions are binding on all USCIS 
employees in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. We may 
consider the reasoning within the unpublished decision; however, the analysis does not have to be 
followed as a matter of law. Second, we disagree that the two cases are sufficiently similar. In the 
cited case, a petitioner showed that two of the United Kingdom's horse racing dignitaries interviewed 
the alien after his horse beat the race favorite, and the interview was broadcast on television on a 
program that averages millions of viewers. That is different than the Petitioner's situation in which 
the published material merely mentioned and quoted him. An article that is not about the Petitioner 
does not meet this regulatory criterion.13 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that we erred in our adverse determination for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner coined his claimed contribution to his field under this criterion as ~---~--~ 
This method essentially amounts to exporting I I products through the use of exporter 
companies. The Petitioner also highlights his presentations to business organizations as supporting 
his eligibility. In our appellate decision we described the content of several letters that discussed 
~------~ ' finding that they primarily related to his status in the field without providing 
examples of his contributions that were of such import that they rose to the level of major significance 
to the entire field. Lacking from the letters were adequate details relating to the Petitioner's 
contributions and how they had a demonstrable impact in the field as a whole. 
Within his motion, the Petitioner discusses letters from two organizations, I I and the I I I ,I. The Petitioner quotes from our appellate decision in which we 
summarized the content of the letters from these two organizations. Within our decision on the appeal, 
we stated: 
12 Id. The authors provide highlights of the Petitioner's work with I I and I , I 
including his position as a member of the Foreign Trade Council, where his work 
focused on simplifyin~ I foreign trade operational procedures for micro, small 
and medium enterprises, and facilitating the access of foreign companies into the 
13 See Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D. Cal. Apr. 9, 2020) (quoting Noroozi 
v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (finding that articles that are about a team or a competition and 
only briefly mention an alien do not satisfy the published material criterion). 
5 
~--~lmarket. The Petitioner also led the reception of foreign delegations on 
international missions to I I with an aim to promote and develop trade and 
institutional relations for both I ~ companies and the I I He was also 
involved in presentations at seminars and workshops at I J aimed at empowering I I c~es to operate in international business and foreign trade, and he 
representedL__Jwith other organizations and governmental agencies worldwide. 
The Petitioner argues that the content of our quote was sufficient to qualify him under this criterion. 
As support, the Petitioner cites to Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 (D.D.C. 2013) for two 
propositions. First, in the Visinscaia case, the court found that because letters she submitted did not 
mention her, or only mentioned her in passing, that she had not shown a reliance on her work, which 
precluded her from demonstrating her contributions qualified under this criterion. Here, the Petitioner 
applies the inverse claiming that letters he submitted described his contribution showing sufficient 
reliance on his work. Second, the Petitioner notes that the alien in the Visinscaia case did not show 
that others in the industry had adopted her claimed special technique, but he has provided material in 
this case demonstrating others have used his methods. 
While the letters in the record may discuss the Petitioner's contribution and may illustrate that others 
in his field have utilized his methods, lacking are the results the companies or entities experienced 
after adopting what the Petitioner calls j I' This relates directly to whether the 
Petitioner's work has impacted the field rather than simply made notable supplements to it. If 
companies adopted the Petitioner's method, but did not experience markedly improved results, then it 
is only a contribution without any major significance in the field. The comments within the letters 
from I I and I I quoted above, merely tend to indicate that the Petitioner has made 
incremental progress to the general knowledge base associated with exporting I I products, 
which is inadequate to meet this criterion's requirements. 
Turning to the letter froltj I a manager at I I (referred to as LJ. within our appellate decision) de~s-c-ri_b_e_d_w_h-at-th_e_P_e-ti-ti_o_n_e~r 
accomplished during a 2013 trade event, to include that he evaluated ten companies with the purpose 
of carrying on negotiations between them and potential buyers from Central America, the Caribbean, 
and the United States. However, she does not explain any results from his participation. She does not 
explain why she considers the Petitioner's involvement to be impactfol on the event, or how it has 
impacted the broader field. 
Finally, in reference to two letters the Petitioner offered from the owner of 
I I and.__ __________ __,the owner of.__ __ .......-----,,-.., I the Petitioner claims that these companies benefitted from.__ __ _. s 
services when that company employed him. We note that aside from the information relating to each 
author and their company, these two letters are virtually identical in their content. As a general concept, 
when a petitioner has provided correspondence from different persons that contribute to the eligibility 
claim, but the language and structure contained within the letters is notably similar, the trier of fact may 
treat those similarities as a basis for questioning a petitioner's claims.14 When letters contain such 
14 See Matter of R-K-K-, 26 T&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015); Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 
6 
similarities, it is reasonable to infer that the petitioner who submitted the strikingly similar documents is 
the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. 15 Because someone other than the authors 
appears to have drafted some portions of the letters, they possess diminished probative value. In 
evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its 
quality.16 While we acknowledge that the authors have provided their support for this petition, it is 
unclear whether the letters reflect their independent observations and thus an informed and unbiased 
opinion of the Petitioner's work. Setting the similarities aside, although the letters described a benefit 
to the individual companies, they did not explain the Petitioner's wider impact within the field as a 
whole. In addition to the reasons described in our appellate decision, these letters are insufficient to 
carry the Petitioner's burden and this material does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions 
were of major significance in the field. 
As such, we decide that the Petitioner has not shown our decision was incorrect under this criterion 
based on the evidence in the record when we made our appellate decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his appeal, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006); Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d 587,592 (6th Cir. 2016); Dehonzai v. Holder, 650 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 
2011 ). 
15 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007); Wang, 824 F.3d at 592. 
16 See Mattero{Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 l&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 
1989)). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23551665 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records indicate that a different Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for an Alien Worker, filed by the Petitioner was approved after the instant appeal. 
USCIS records further show that a Form 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust 
Status, was approved subsequent to the filing of this appeal and that the Petitioner was issued a 
Permanent Resident Card on February 8, 2022. As the Petitioner is presently a permanent resident, 
further pursuit of this matter is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2024 In Re: 34427770 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established her receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner met at least three of the claimed evidentiary criteria. 
However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not show she garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim and her achievements have been recognized in the field of endeavor, 
demonstrating she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues her satisfaction ofadditional criteria, and the evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already 
shown that she fulfills the minimum requirements of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 she is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and her achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
2 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we 
determine the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects the Petitioner received a bachelor's degree (2010) and a master's degree (2012) in 
design from the ______________ in Armenia. According to the submitted 
screenshots of her website, the Petitioner has participated in exhibitions and displayed her artwork in 
the United States, Armenia, and various countries in Europe. As discussed further below, the 
Petitioner has received awards, participated in an association, experienced some press coverage, 
conducted review work, displayed her work at various venues, and worked on projects. However, in 
considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her achievements are 
reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that she has risen to that 
small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary 
for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent 
of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that she enjoys a career that meets this very high standard. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting her receipt of about a half dozen awards from 2010 to 
2019. Although the awards may show some recognition of her work from the field, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how they indicate that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. While the Petitioner submitted accompanying articles reporting on the 
winners or exhibitions, as well as letters offering background information, the Petitioner did not 
establish that she received awards indicative ofthe upper echelon in the field. Moreover, based on the 
documentation, the majority of the awards were either government-sponsored or youth-based. 4 Here, 
the Petitioner did not show how her awards place her among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field or that she garnered national or international acclaim. 5 USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided evidence of her membership with the Union Designers of 
Armenia (UDA). However, the Petitioner did not show how her membership or service resulted in 
sustained national or international acclaim or reflects that small percentage who has risen to the very 
3 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCIS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
4 For instance, the Petitioner received a gold medal from the I Iwhich "seeks tol 
I I See www org. In addition, the Petitioner garnered certif icates of merit from the 
and the 
5 M-S-'s letter, describing the _ __,competition and award, indicates that is geared more toward novice and 
unnoticed artists rather than established and acclaimed artists, such as "[i]t helped artists to become known to the general 
public, to get acquainted with the masters of the given field, to establish connections, and become famous all over the 
world." 
3 
top of the field of endeavor. The record, for instance, does not contain evidence indicating that she 
received national or international recognition based on her membership or service with this 
association. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that she has distinguished herself from others 
in the field based on her membership with UDA, gaining national or international attention or placing 
her among the upper echelon in her field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered about a dozen articles covering 2013 -2023. Again, 
while the published material indicates some attention to her and her work, the Petitioner did not 
establish that such reporting is consistent with a level of success among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor or has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner, for instance, did not show how her limited media coverage, averaging about one article 
per year, compares to other visual artists among the very top of the field. Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how her press coverage reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high 
standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. 
Likewise, relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner judged three exhibitions on behalf of UDA from 2015 -2016. However, the Petitioner did 
not establish that these judging instances contributed to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed 
work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner did not show, for example, how her two-year judging experience around eight years 
ago compares to others at the very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish, for 
instance, that she garnered wide attention from the field based on her evaluation work. Moreover, 
serving as an exhibition judge on three occasions does not automatically demonstrate that an individual 
has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. 
Without evidence that sets the Petitioner apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has 
a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner 
has not shown that her narrow judging experience places her among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Moreover, as indicated above, the Petitioner submitted evidence that she has displayed her work at 
venues in the United States, Armenia, and various countries in Europe since 2009. Although the 
Petitioner established that she exhibited her work, simply displaying one's work, however, does not 
automatically place one at the very top of the field. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
significance ofher collective or individual exhibitions, such as that her work brought wide praise from 
critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for the success of standings of the 
events. Again, the nominal press coverage over the last ten years does not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim. Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish her work from 
others in her field or show that it reflects a career ofacclaimed work in the field. Further, the Petitioner 
did not establish that her work garnered a level of attention or was regularly seen at highly reputable 
venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
4 
Similarly, the Petitioner offered evidence ofher participation in the construction ofa monument-water 
spring in the memory ofdeceased soldiers in the village of and 
her preparation ofplaster slabs for the ______ Although the Petitioner presented letters 
praising her work on the projects, the Petitioner did not show that her work resulted in widespread 
acclaim from the field, that she drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall 
field considers her to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 6 Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that while a person may be stronger in one particular 
evidentiary area than in others, the totality of the evidence must establish that the person in extraordinary). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2024 In Re: 34815255 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a beautician and eyelash artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established her receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner met at least three of the claimed evidentiary criteria. 
However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not show she garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim and her achievements have been recognized in the field of endeavor, 
demonstrating she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues her satisfaction ofadditional criteria, and the evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already 
shown that she fulfills the minimum requirements of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 she is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and her achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
2 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we 
determine the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to the Petitioner's initial cover letter: 
[The Petitioner's] reputation is demonstrated by her specialized professional 
experience and, most notably, her proven success in creating remarkable novel 
approaches and application of modem methods in Eyelash Styling and Beauty 
Business. [The Petitioner's] combined extensive experience in her field and unique 
and creative talent certainly qualify her as a[n] Eyelash Styling Artist with 
extraordinary ability, one that will highly benefit the United States and the field ofArts, 
Eyelash Styling, and Beauty Business as a whole. 
As discussed further below, the Petitioner has received awards, been accredited by an association, 
experienced some press coverage, conducted review work, made contributions, authored material, 
founded and operated a beauty studio and school, and earned a salary for her work. However, in 
considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her achievements are 
reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that she has risen to that 
small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary 
for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent 
of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that she enjoys a career that meets this very high standard. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting her receipt of 10 awards received from five competitions 
from 2023, within a year of the filing of the petition. Although the awards may show some recent 
recognition of her work from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how they indicate sustained 
national or international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted letters confirming her receipt of the awards and background information about the 
competitions, the Petitioner did not establish that she received awards indicative of the upper echelon 
in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the awards and how they place her 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided evidence ofher membership and "qualification as a Trainer, with 
the right to teach accreditation course" with the International Association of Judges Lash and Brown 
Industry (IAJLBI) in January 2023. However, the Petitioner did not show how her recent membership 
or accreditation resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her accreditation by IAJLBI reflects that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. The record, for instance, does not 
contain evidence indicating that she received national or international recognition based on her 
accreditation by this association. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that she has distinguished 
herself from others in the field based on her membership or accreditation by IAJLBI, gaining national 
or international attention or placing her among the upper echelon in her field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered nine articles published in 2023, which includes an 
article published in Forbes Woman (Kazakhstan). While the published material indicates some recent 
attention to her and her work, the Petitioner did not establish that such reporting is consistent with a 
level of success among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, 
has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, or has a career of acclaimed work. The 
Petitioner, for instance, did not show how the amount ofher media coverage compares to others in her 
field who are among the very top. Again, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her nominal press 
coverage reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to present more 
extensive documentation than that required. 
Likewise, relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner judged three championships in 2023. However, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
three recent judging instances contributed to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the 
field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to others at the very 
top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide 
attention from the field based on her evaluation work. Moreover, serving on a jury on three occasions 
does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets the Petitioner apart 
from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of reviewing or judging 
recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that her narrow judging 
experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. The record 
reflects the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she published six articles in 2023, and two 
training guides. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her recent publication record is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or international acclaim, and 
being among the small percentage at the very top of her field. The Petitioner, for instance, did not 
show the significance of her authorship or how her publication record compares to others who are 
viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that her publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have been 
4 
influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although she provided delivery agreements reflecting two parties 
purchasing her books, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her training guides received a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or a career of 
acclaimed work. Further, the Petitioner did not show the impact or influence of her other written 
materials have had on the field or otherwise show the significance or relevance of her publications. 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters generally praising her and her work. For 
instance, M-B-stated: 
[The Petitioner] stands as an illustrious figure in the ever-evolving landscape of the 
beauty industry, particularly renowned for her expertise in lash artistry. Her influence 
extends far and wide, not only in the CIS countries but also across borders, making her 
as a global luminary in the realm of lash extensions. As the founder of the prestigious 
[beauty studio and school] in Kazakhstan, she has left an indelible mark on the industry, 
defining trends and setting new standards. 
Also, T-K-stated: 
... [The Petitioner's] contribution to the beauty industry is invaluable. Thanks to her 
scientific and methodological manuals on eyelash extensions ... [the Petitioner] 
significantly influenced the development of this industry. We ourselves, at our school, 
use her books to teach novice masters, and note their uniqueness and practical value. 
Here, the letters do not further elaborate and provide detailed information explaining how "she has left 
an indelible mark on the industry" or "significantly influenced the development of this industry."4 In 
addition, the letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that she is viewed 
by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, among the upper echelon or that she has garnered 
recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. Although the letters highlight the Petitioner's talents, they do 
not reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
Regarding her business, the Petitioner claimed that "the school has successfully assisted around 100 
graduates in Russia and Kazakhstan, fostering a community of skilled professionals." While the 
Petitioner provided photographs of her students completing her courses and pointed to the previously 
discussed media articles, in which only a few discuss her studio or school, the Petitioner did not 
establish that her business received widespread acclaim from the field, drew significant attention from 
the greater field, or the overall field views her business to be among the leading beauty studios or 
schools in the field. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show that she attracted a level of attention 
from owning and operating her business that places her among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field or enjoys a career of acclaimed work. 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered all of the letters contained in the record. 
5 
Finally, although the Petitioner documented her income as an entrepreneur of her beauty salon since 
2019, the Petitioner did not establish that she commanded earnings commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. The Petitioner did not show that her wages are tantamount to an 
individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. She did not 
demonstrate, for example, how her earnings compare to others at the very top of the field or other 
renowned beauty salon owners, 5 or that she received notoriety or attention based on her profits or 
salary separating herself from others in the field or placing her in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 6 Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 The Petitioner provided comparative wages of lash makers rather than to her occupation as a beauty salon entrepreneur 
or owner. 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that while a person may be stronger in one particular 
evidentiary area than in others, the totality of the evidence must establish that the person in extraordinary). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2024 In Re: 34813105 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in weapons development. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. In addition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not demonstrate his intent to continue 
to work in his area of extraordinary ability in the United States and that his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met at least three ofthe claimed evidentiary criteria. However, 
the Director concluded the Petitioner did not show he garnered sustained national or international 
acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in the field of endeavor, demonstrating he is one 
of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues his satisfaction of an additional criterion, and the evidence in the 
aggregate establishes his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner 
has already shown that he fulfills the minimum requirements of at least three criteria, we will evaluate 
the totality of the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the 
final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
2 
I extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we 
determine the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner provided documentation indicating that he "graduated from the _______Iand obtained complete higher education in specialty 'Law 
Science' and a qualification of a lawyer" in 1999 and "received a degree Candidate of Science Law" 
from the in 2021. According to the Petitioner's initial cover letter: 
In Ukraine, in the period from 1999 to 2023, [the Petitioner] gained huge scientific, 
legal and practical experience. Building his career, [the Petitioner] rose from the 
position of a forensic expert -specialist in forensics examination of firearms and traces 
of their use, to the position of Deputy Head of the Expert Service of thel I 
. . ., in which [the Petitioner] headed six 
departments: of criminal examination and certification testing of arms and armaments, 
armor vests and other means of armored protection; cars and other motor vehicles; 
examination of currency, documents and securities, fingerprints, traces of burglary 
tools and instruments, locks and security seals; pyrotechnic articles and explosives; 
designing of shooting ranges and premises for safe storage of weapons. 
As discussed further below, the Petitioner has received awards, conducted review work, made 
contributions, authored material, performed in authoritative roles, and earned salaries for his work. 
However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that he has 
risen to that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that he enjoys a career that meets this very high standard. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting his receipt of almost two dozen commendations from 
various cabinets within the government of Ukraine in the form of certificates, degrees, medals, orders, 
and other awards from 2002 -2023. Although the awards show recognition of his work within the 
government of Ukraine, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how these internal honors translate into 
national or international acclaim from the forensics or weapons development field. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish how his recognition for his government employment indicates that he is one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. While the Petitioner submitted 
accompanying photographs, minutes, and resolutions, the Petitioner did not show that he received 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
awards indicative of the upper echelon in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
his government employment accolades place him among that small percentage at the very top of the 
field or that he garnered national or international acclaim in the field. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided evidence of his membership on the Expert Qualification 
Commission I I for the attestation of forensic experts from 2005 -present. Specifically, the 
Petitioner assessed the knowledge and levels of training of forensic experts through the administration 
of exams. However, the Petitioner did not show how his membership or service resulted in sustained 
national or international acclaim or reflects that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. The record, for instance, does not contain evidence indicating that he received 
national or international recognition based on his membership or service with this commission. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not establish that he has distinguished himself from others in the field based 
on his membership, gaining national or international attention or placing him among the upper echelon 
in his field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner 
submitted evidence that he serves as the deputy editor-in-chief for Specifically, the 
Petitioner served in this role for four issues from 2002 -2023. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that his recent judging instances contributed to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the 
field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show, for example, how his recent experience serving on the editorial 
board for a single publication compares to others at the very top ofthe field. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his editorial 
board work. Further, serving on an editorial board for a publication does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as 
evidence that he has a consistent history of serving on editorial boards for esteemed publications or 
judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that his recent and 
narrow judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. The record 
reflects the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored 3 book chapters, 2 monographs, 
and 12 forensic-related articles. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication 
record is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or international 
acclaim, and being among the small percentage at the very top ofhis field. The Petitioner, for instance, 
did not show the significance of his authorship or how his publication record compares to others who 
are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
4 
In addition, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have been 
influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. However, the Petitioner did not show the impact or influence that his 
written material has had on the field or otherwise show the significance or relevance of his 
publications. For instance, the Petitioner did not indicate that his work received a level of interest in 
the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 4 
Similarly, the Petitioner presented evidence ofbeing an inventor for the patent, _______ 
in 2023 and his authorship of eight Standards for I Iwhich "establish obligatory requirements of 
Ukraine to the design and safety of certain products." Again, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
significance or relevance of the patent and standards in the field. Although the evidence indicates the 
originality of his work, the Petitioner did not establish that his contributions garnered him national or 
international attention or reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not show how his patent or standards have impacted the field consistent with a very high standard 
requiring the petitioner to submit more extensive documentation than that required for lesser 
classifications. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided several recommendation letters generally praising him and his 
work. For instance, Y-C-stated that the Petitioner "has made a significant scientific and practical 
contribution to the development of forensic ballistic examination, as well as forensic accounting of 
weapons and traces of their use."5 Here, the letter does not further elaborate and provide detailed 
information explaining how he "has made a significant scientific and practical contribution." 
Moreover, the letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that he is viewed 
by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, among the upper echelon or that he has garnered 
recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. Although the letters identify the Petitioner's original 
contributions, they do not reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. Likewise, the letters do not establish his roles with the 
___________ or any other department within the _ resulted in widespread 
acclaim from the field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall field 
considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Finally, although the Petitioner documented his salary with the I Ithe Petitioner did not establish 
that he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. The 
Petitioner did not show that his wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. He did not demonstrate, for example, how his 
government salary compares to others at the very top ofthe field or other renowned weapon developers 
4 At initial filing, the Petitioner's cover letter claimed that his three books sold 3,000, 500, and 500 copies, respectively. 
Besides not providing evidence to support his assertions, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these figures represent 
attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
5 Although we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered the other recommendation letters in the record. 
5 
or forensic experts, or that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating himself 
from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 6 Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he is among the small percentage 
at the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 7 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that while a person may be stronger in one particular 
evidentiary area than in others, the totality of the evidence must establish that the person in extraordinary). 
7 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(6)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act and 
whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(6 )(1 )( A )(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not 
required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their 
burden of proof). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2024 In Re: 34070519 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a long-distance runner, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a long-distance runner, intends to continue her activities in the field of athletics in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed to meet the plain language 
requirements of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to lesser awards (i), 
memberships (ii), published materials (iii), and original contributions of major significance (v), the 
Director determined that she satisfied none ofthem. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for 
these four criteria and asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous. 
Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's} receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received prizes or awards, and they 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was "excellence in the 
field" include but are not limited to the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
2 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policyrnanual. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. However, we find sufficient 
documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner received nationally and internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofrunning, and the Director's determination on 
this issue will be withdrawn. The Petitioner provided evidence of her first-place finishes in the 2012 
I I Marathon and the 2013 Marathon and her second-place finishes in the 2018 
I IMarathon and 2014 I I Marathon, among other events. She provided evidence of race 
results confirming her top placement among large fields of competitors at these events, as well as 
media coverage of the events and her victories. In light of the above, the Petitioner has established 
that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 'sJ membership in associations in the fieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) determines ifthe association for which the person 
claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by 
recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. Id. 
Here, the Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion because she represented her country in 
numerous competitions as a member of the I !national team. 
We acknowledge that membership on a national team may, depending on the evidence presented in 
an individual case, be sufficient to satisfy this criterion. While an athletic team is not, strictly speaking, 
an "association," it is nonetheless equally true that an athlete can earn a place on a major national or 
an Olympic team only through rigorous competition which separates the very best from the great 
majority of participants in a given sport. Therefore, an athlete's membership on an Olympic team or 
a major national team may serve to meet this criterion as such teams are limited in the number of 
members and have a rigorous selection process. See id. (stating that election to a national all-star or 
Olympic team might serve as comparable evidence for evidence of membership in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that she meets every element 
of a given criterion. We will not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields or disciplines. Upon review of the evidence submitted, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established her eligibility under this criterion. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's assertion that she represented 
in numerous competitions, but determined that she had not presented evidence regarding her 
selection to the national team, the requirements for her selection, or the qualifications of those who 
selected her to compete. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation in the form of 
news articles and abstracts in support of her assertion that she satisfies this criterion. 
3 
The Petitioner submits documentation from www.worldathletics.org regarding the "Qualification 
System and Entry Standards" for the "World Athletic Championships Budapest 23" dated August 
2022. While this document outlines the minimum entry requirements for participation in this 
competition, it does not mention the Petitioner, nor does it pertain to the Petitioner's claimed 
membership on the I I national team. 
The Petitioner also submitted two news articles in support of her eligibility under this criterion. The 
first, an article entitled "What is a Good Marathon Time?" published at www.asics.com, generally 
discusses the world records and elite times for men and women participating in marathons but does 
not pertain to the membership requirements of the I I national team. The second article, 
entitled _________ for IAAF World Athletics Championships Doha 2019" from 
www.worldathletics.org, identifies its selections for that particular team. Although it notes that several 
selectees are "world leaders" and "world record holders," the Petitioner is not identified as a member 
of this 2019 team, nor does it outline the criteria for selection to the I I national team. 
Finally, the Petitioner submits a 2012 abstract entitled _______ distance runners: what 
makes them so good?" published at pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. The abstract, however, discusses the 
links between genotype characteristics and elite running performance, and does not address the 
Petitioner's claimed membership on the I !national team or the manner in which such team 
members are selected. 
Here, the Petitioner has not documented her membership on theI I national team. Although 
the record contains the Petitioner's race results for various competitions which denote her country asI I there is no documentation establishing that she was in fact a member ofthe country's national 
team at the time she participated in those events. The Petitioner must support her assertions with 
relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not provide supporting evidence showing that membership on this team 
required outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their disciplines or fields. Although many athletes who are members ofa national team may 
qualify under this criterion, they must submit sufficient evidence of the selection process to establish 
that outstanding achievements are required ( e.g., meeting a certain cutoff time or score, or advancing 
through qualification rounds). While the submissions on appeal provide general information regarding 
elite running times and information regarding the eligibility requirements for entry into various events, 
this documentation provides no insight on the selection process for the I I national team. 
Although an athlete's membership on a major national team may serve to meet this criterion as such 
teams are limited in the number ofmembers and have a rigorous selection process, it is the Petitioner's 
burden to demonstrate that she meets every element ofa given criterion, including that she is a member 
of a team that requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her membership in associations requiring outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
4 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner asserted that she satisfied this criterion based on her rankings and performance statistics 
in long-distance races. She specifically highlights that she broke course records at the I I I I Marathon in China in 2012 and the Marathon in 2013 in addition to 
winning more than 10 prestigious international competitions in long-distance running. The Petitioner 
also submitted a letter froml Ia professional race director, who attests to the Petitioner's 
skills and abilities. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that her 
contributions were original or of major significance to the field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that her multiple course records at major marathons constitute original contributions of major 
significance. 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's determination. Here, the Petitioner has not explained 
how winning or placing highly in a given race amounts to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. Neither the Petitioner nor Mr. explain why, for instance, breaking 
course records at the _______ Marathon in China in 2012 and the _____ 
Marathon in 2013 are original athletic contributions of major significance in the field. Winning 
nationally or internationally significant races satisfies a separate criterion relating to prizes and awards. 
The existence of two separate criteria ( one for prizes, one for contributions) demonstrates that neither 
implies the other. An athlete may, ofcourse, win a prize or award as a result ofan athletic contribution 
of major significance, but the burden is on the Petitioner to show that is the case. Here, the submitted 
evidence fails to demonstrate how the Petitioner's competitive results equate to "original" athletic 
contributions or how her specific achievements were majorly significant in the field of long-distance 
runnmg. 
The letter from Mr. recounted the Petitioner's achievements in the field oflong-distance running 
and stated that "an athlete of [the Petitioner's] caliber is quite rare." Although Mr. generally 
praises the Petitioner's running abilities, he does not explain how her achievements in the field are 
original or how their impact has reached a level ofmajor significance in the field. His letter, therefore, 
does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in 
the field. USCIS may, in its discretion, use advisory opinions and statements submitted as expert 
testimony. See Matter ofCaron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). USCIS is ultimately 
responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit 
sought. Id. The submission of reference letters is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS 
may, as we have in this case, evaluate the contents ofletters as to whether they support the individual's 
eligibility. See id. at 795-96. 
5 
The record does not contain evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's racing wins and course 
records have impacted the field of running in a way that could be characterized as having major 
significance. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that she has made original 
contributions of major significance to the field. 
B. Reserved Issue 
Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy one additional criterion related to published materials, 
we need not reach that issue. We reserve it as she cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INSv. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
TIT. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 34830194 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an engineer specializing in spacecraft life support systems, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner has worked forl lspace program since 1991. The Petitioner works "in the design, 
development, and integration of life support and water supply systems . . . that allow the filtering, 
recycling, and reusing [ of] wastewater [on] spacecrafts and space stations," such as "the space toilet 
ordered by NASA which was located [on] the International Space Station (ISS)." The Petitioner has 
intermittently visited the United States since 2007 as an A-2 nonimmigrant employee of a foreign 
government. He has remained in the United States since his most recent entry in December 2022. A U.S. 
company seeking to build a private, commercial space station seeks to employ the Petitioner. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to awards and judging. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other six claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of at least 
one more criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) calls for evidence of the individual's 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several of his scholarly articles, published in journals and in 
conference proceedings. The Director did not dispute the scholarly nature of the articles, but 
concluded that that the Petitioner's "evidence ... does not show that the articles were published in 
professional publications, trade publications, or other major media." The Director cited the 
Adjudicator's Field Manual, Chapter 22.2(i)(l)(A), which required circulation data for all published 
scholarly articles. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner correctly observes that "as of May 2020, USCIS retired its Adjudicator's 
Field Manual" and replaced it with the USCIS Policy Manual. 
The superseding guidance acknowledges that the wording of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) does not 
require professional publications to be "major." Instead, a "relevant factor" would be "the intended 
audience." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The record 
sufficiently establishes that the intended audience for the Petitioner's published articles and published 
conference presentations consists of professionals in the aerospace field. 
The evidence ofrecord establishes that the Petitioner is the author of scholarly articles that have appeared 
in professional publications. This is sufficient to satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
Because the above discussion shows that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which is sufficient for the case to proceed to a final merits determination, we 
need not discuss the other claimed criteria, and therefore reserve discussion on them. 1 
As discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence. The next 
step is to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim; that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor; and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. A final merits determination involves analyzing an individual's accomplishments and 
weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(8)(2). 
We will remand the matter in order for the Director to make a final merits determination. 
In doing so, the Director must bear in mind that the determination involves consideration ofthe totality 
of the record, rather than simply re-evaluating the evidence submitted regarding the individual 
underlying criteria. The Director must determine whether the record as a whole shows that the 
Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 InRe: 33516671 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lead marketing specialist, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability 
in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the Director mischaracterized some of her documentation and 
reasserts her eligibility for the classification . Upon review, we conclude that the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) and decision notice did not adequately address the claimed evidentiary criteria or 
analyze the evidence provided. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for a denial so that the affected party has a fair opportunity 
to contest the decision and we have an opportunity to conduct a meaningful appellate review. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i) (providing that the director's decision must explain the specific reasons for denial); 
cf Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must 
be clear to allow the affected party a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Furthermore, an RFE must give the affected party notice of the proposed grounds of denial to give 
them adequate notice and sufficient information to respond. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(8)(iv ); see generally 
1 USCIS Policy Manual E.6(F)(3), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual (stating that RFEs should 
identify why the provided evidence is insufficient) . 
Both in the RFE and denial, the Director stated that various documents in the record did not establish 
eligibility without adequately discussing the contents ofthose documents or explaining why they were 
insufficient. For example, in the RFE, the Director dismissed evidence the Petitioner submitted for 
the lead or critical role criterion, in part, by categorically stating that someone classified as a self-­
employed, temporary or contractual worker cannot meet this criterion. However, the Director did not 
further explain or support his statement with legal authorities or guidance. Similarly in the denial, the 
Director repeatedly dismissed the Petitioner's evidence by stating: 
[T]he submitted evidence (e.g. iterating evidence, minimized digital photos) appears to 
be digital, self-made copies of documentary evidence that were reduced or altered, but 
such documentation is inadmissible. You did not submit ordinary legible photocopies 
ofthe original documentary evidence ... reflecting its original size. Thus, the evidence 
holds not probative value. 
While illegible evidence is not probative, there is no regulation banning the submission ofphotocopies 
that have had their size altered. Furthermore, upon review, the vast majority of the Petitioner's 
evidence is legible. It is therefore not apparent what documents the Director is referring to with this 
statement, which does not afford the Petitioner an adequate opportunity to respond. 
At times, the Director also mischaracterized and overlooked evidence. For example, when discussing 
the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the RFE and denial dismissed a letter from the 
Eastern European Marketing Association, stating that it only discussed committee membership rather 
than membership in an association. However, the letter in question did discuss the requirements of 
membership in the association. Furthermore, while the RFE and denial stated that the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence showing that either of the associations she is a member of requires outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by experts in the field, she submitted letters, meeting minutes, 
and member biographies which address those issues. Additionally, the denial stated that associations 
which only require fees or a certain education or experience level for membership do not qualify for 
the membership criterion, but neither of the associations in the Petitioner's evidence meet this 
description. 
When addressing the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Director stated 
that the Petitioner did not provide materials establishing that any of the articles were published in 
professional or major trade publications, when, for example, the record includes information indicating 
that magazines such as PR in Russia and Adindex are professional publications in the public relations 
field. Furthermore, the Director cited Braga v. Poulos, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. Jul. 6, 
2007), aff'd, 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (9th Cir. 2009), an unpublished federal district court case, 1 to dismiss 
circulation data in the record by asserting that USCIS was not obliged to accept publications' "self­
serving assertions." However, in Braga, the "self-serving" assertion in question was an unsupported 
claim to be "The #1 Magazine of Mixed Martial Arts!", not concrete information such as circulation 
1 Federal district court cases, as well as unpublished cases, are only binding on the parties before them. However, such 
cases may be cited as persuasive authority. See, e.g., Matter ofK-S-, 20 T&N Dec. 715, 718-19 (holding that federal district 
court decisions are not binding on the Board of Immigration Appeals, an administrative appellate authority); Wang v. 
Holder, 569 F.3d 531, 538 n.5 (5th Cir. 2009) (noting that unpublished opinions are not binding precedent but may be 
persuasive on the legal issues). 
2 
data. In this and other instances, the Director categorically dismissed the Petitioner's evidence instead 
of discussing its contents. 
Because the Director's decision did not adequately address the record, we will remand this matter. On 
remand, the Director should specifically address the contents of the documents provided by the 
Petitioner and determine whether the evidence meets the criteria, and if does not, clearly explain why 
the evidence is insufficient. If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria 
after re-examining the evidence, the Director should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that the Petitioner is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that the Petitioner's achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Director may also request any evidence considered relevant to the new decision. We express no 
opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 33947609 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a digital influencer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the classification's initial evidentiary requirements . The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In the underlying petition, the Petitioner claimed to qualify under seven of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
(i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
(ii) Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements of their members; 
(iii) Published material about the Petitioner in professional or major media; 
(v) Making artistic contributions of major significance to the field; 
(vii) Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
(viii) Performing in a lead or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished 
reputations; and 
(x) Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the evidence only satisfied the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and denied the petition accordingly. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a personal 
statement and documentation from her YouTube channel. Upon review, she has not established 
eligibility for the reasons below. 
A. Receipt ofLesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes or Awards for Excellence in the 
Field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To qualify for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted materials concerning the Silver level __ 
I IAward, the TikTok award, and the YouTube award for having 100,000 
subscribers. 1 The Director concluded that the record did not establish that any of these awards were 
recognized beyond the rewarding entities. On appeal, the Petitioner states that "[t]hese awards are 
internationally and nationally recognized and relevant in the field." Upon review, the Petitioner has 
not provided sufficient evidence to support her claims. 
1 We note that the only requirements for the Y ouTube award are being an actively posting channel with 100,000 subscribers 
and complying with various YouTube policies. As such, the record does not indicate that this is an award for excellence, 
as required at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
When considering whether an award is nationally or internationally recognized as reflecting 
excellence in a person's field, we assess factors such as the criteria used to grant the awards, the 
significance of these awards in the person's field, the number of awardees, and limitations on 
competitors. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Here, the record indicates that the winners of the _____ ward are determined through a 
poll of the readers of the Brazilian Times, a regional U.S. publication for the Brazilian-American 
community. While this award is arguably in the Petitioner's field, since it was granted for her work 
as a social media influencer, there is no indication that it is nationally or internationally recognized. 
The only articles the Petitioner submitted regarding this award are from the Brazilian Times, the 
award's co-sponsor, and from the Petitioner's hometown newspaper in Brazil. The record therefore 
does not establish that the Award is recognized beyond a local or regional level in 
the United States or Brazil. Similarly, the only documentation provided regarding the Petitioner's 
TikTok award is the award itself, and there is no evidence establishing the national or international 
significance of this award in her field. 
The record does not indicate that the Petitioner's awards are recognized on a national or international 
level as reflecting excellence in her field. She therefore has not established eligibility under the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
B. Membership in Associations in the Field Which Require Outstanding Achievements of Their 
Members, as Judged by Recognized National or International Experts. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The 
Petitioner seeks to qualify for this criterion on the basis ofher membership in the Y ouTube Shorts 
creators' community. The Director concluded that the evidence provided did not establish her 
membership in an association or that any such association required outstanding achievements of its 
members. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner mentions this criterion but does not specify any legal or factual 
error in the Director's conclusions. 
The record indicates that membership in the YouTube Shorts creators' community only requires a 
person to be an active creator of short videos and compliant with Y ouTube policies. While the 
community is invitation-only, there is no indication that the invitations are issued by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the Petitioner's field, or that they are only issued to creators with 
outstanding achievements. The Petitioner has not established eligibility under the membership 
criterion. 
C. Published Material about the Petitioner in Professional or Major Trade Publications or Other Major 
Media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted evidence satisfying this criterion. However, upon 
review, we will withdraw this finding, because the record does not establish that any ofthe publications 
2 We note that the Director stated that the "submitted evidence does not show the petitioner is or was a member of any 
professional association" (emphasis added). There is no requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) that a qualifying 
association be professional in nature; it only has to be an association in the person's field of endeavor. However, since the 
Petitioner has not otherwise established eligibility for this criterion, the error is, at most, harmless. See generally Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,350 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing cases regarding non-material errors). 
3 
which published articles about or interviews with the Petitioner are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The documentation regarding the Brazilian Times newspaper states that it has two regional editions in 
the eastern United States, each with a circulation of 16,000 copies. However, the record does not 
contain evidence indicating that this is a relatively large circulation or showing that the Brazilian Times 
is regarded as a major publication. Similarly, the newspaper I I is a local newspaper from 
the Petitioner's hometown with a printed circulation of 4,500 copies and 17,200 website views per 
edition. While a nominally local newspaper may be considered major media, the record here does not 
establish that I I has a relatively large circulation, is nationally prominent in Brazil, or is 
otherwise a major media outlet. Finally, the television channel TV Horizonte is described as "the 
biggest Catholic TV Channel in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil," where the Petitioner's hometown 
is located. This does not establish whether TV Horizonte has high viewership in comparison to secular 
television channels in Minas Gerais or in Brazil as a whole. 
The evidence provided does not establish that any ofthe published material about the Petitioner comes 
from professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner has not established 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
D. Original Artistic Contributions of Major Significance in the Field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director concluded that the recommendation letters provided to establish eligibility under this 
criterion did not establish how the Petitioner's work majorly influenced her field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner states that her "petition provided extensive evidence of [her] achievements and contributions 
to the field," and names the other evidentiary criteria she is seeking to qualify under. She further 
claims that her high follower and view counts on YouTube and TikTok establish that her "original 
contributions are substantial and impactfol, with hundreds of videos that went viral." 
Firstly, the Petitioner has not qualified under any of the other evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Secondly, she has provided no legal support for the claim that qualifying under one of 
the other criteria constitutes proof of an original contribution of major significance to the field. Since 
this interpretation ofthe regulation would nullify the original contributions criterion and contradict the 
requirement that petitioners provide evidence meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we decline to adopt it. 
Finally, popularity is not synonymous with originality or significance. While the Petitioner's videos 
have been viewed millions of times, the record does not include documentation showing how this has 
affected the field of social media influencing. There is no documentation indicating that other 
influencers have adopted the Petitioner's methods or otherwise been affected by her work. The record 
also does not explain which of the Petitioner's contributions is considered original or why. She 
therefore has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
4 
E. Display of the Petitioner's Work in the Field at Artistic Exhibitions or Showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
To qualify under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence of a I I billboard display, 
as well as an exhibition in the ________________________ an 
organization that seeks to memorialize the history of Brazilian immigrants in the United States. The 
Director concluded that these displays did not occur at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends that since her work is artistic, the exhibitions were artistic as well, and that she 
has therefore established her qualifications under this criterion. However, the record does not support 
this conclusion. 
First, the regulation requires a display of the Petitioner's work product. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.3(B)(l). Both the billboard and the display in the ____ only showed 
the Petitioner's photograph and accompanying explanatory text, rather than her videos. Therefore, 
they are not displays of the Petitioner's work product in her field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's conclusion that these exhibitions were not 
artistic in nature. A billboard is an advertising medium: while art may be displayed on it, that does 
not make it an artistic exhibition or showcase. The documentation regarding the _____ 
indicates that it is a collection of plaques showing the photographs of various notable Brazilian 
Americans, as well as explanatory text about their work. This is a community history and information 
display, not a display of art. The Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
F. Performing in a Lead or Critical Role for Organizations or Establishments with Distinguished 
Reputations. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
While the Petitioner mentions this criterion on appeal, she does not specify what 
establishment or 
organization she has performed a lead or critical role for or indicate what factual or legal errors the 
Director made regarding this criterion. We therefore will not address the issue further. Giday v. INS, 
113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (declining to address a "passing reference" to an argument in a 
brief that did not provide legal support). 
G. Commercial Success in the Performing Arts. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner cannot qualify under this criterion because she does not 
work in the performing arts. However, the record indicates that her YouTube and TikTok videos 
consist of sketches which she acts in. Because acting is a performing art, we will withdraw the 
Director's conclusion that the Petitioner cannot qualify under this criterion. 
However, upon examination of the record, the evidence provided is insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner has had commercial success as contemplated by the regulation. We acknowledge that the 
Petitioner has a high number of TikTok followers and a popular YouTube channel. However, the 
regulation specifies "commercial" success -that is, success leading to financial profits -and calls for 
evidence such as box office receipts and record sales to demonstrate eligibility. Here, that evidence 
has not been provided. 
5 
The Petitioner has submitted documentation indicating that her Y ouTube videos are monetized, and 
in her response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), she also provided information from an 
analytics website estimating that she could be paid $1,852 to $2,910 per TikTok post, based on 
statistics such as her follower count and engagement levels. However, the website printout 
prominently states that "[t]his is only an estimation and can vary greatly by niche, country, [and] 
audience location." The Petitioner also states on appeal that "videos with such high view counts are 
monetized, generating significant revenue through advertising and sponsorship" and that her "ability 
to monetize these viral videos ... translates into tangible financial success." However, she has not 
provided any documentation of her actual revenues from advertising, sponsorships, or monetization, 
and so has not established her level of commercial success. 
Finally, while the Petitioner's work may have the potential to be highly profitable in the future, all 
petitioners must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time they file the benefit request. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner's potential future commercial success therefore cannot 
establish eligibility under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial 
evidence ofeither a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she has not 
demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 34818623 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy at 
least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the nine claimed 
categories of evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for four criteria. Issues 
and prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 
330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
In addition, the Petitioner submits new evidence and argues new eligibility claims on appeal. Because 
the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence and make 
these claims, we will not consider them for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l l) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) ( declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because 
"the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial"). Thus, we will only address the evidence and claims 
brought before the Director and contested on appeal. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner 
did not establish he meets at least three categories of evidence. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 1 The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 2 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanuaL 
2 Id. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the 
Professional Photographers of America (PP A) and the Brazilian Association ofVisual Authors Rights 
(AUTIS). The record reflects the Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership with PP A and 
AUTIS. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that membership with PPA or AUTIS requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
the field. This criterion not only requires the Petitioner to establish his membership but also show that 
membership in the association requires outstanding achievements and recognized national or 
international experts judge such membership. Here, the Petitioner did not offer evidence before the 
Director to establish that he fulfills all elements of this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 3 USCIS then determines whether the 
publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media 
publication.4 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted foreign language articles without any English language translations. 
Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). Translators must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. In 
addition, the Petitioner presented an English language article where he is credited as the photographer 
in the accompanying caption but does not discuss the Petitioner and his work. 5 See also, e.g., Negro­
Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that 
articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
showing the articles were published or posted in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 6 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted two screenshots 
posted on Y ouTube claiming to be an interview with him on the program, on 
Sistema Brasileiro de Televisao. However, the Petitioner did not provide a transcript ofthe purported 
3 See generally 6 USeIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
5 Similarly, it appears that his foreign language articles credit him as the photographer in the accompanying captions 
without any discussion of him. 
6 See generally 6 users Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(l) (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended business audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
3 
interview demonstrating published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. 7 Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not present evidence establishing that the television program qualifies as a professional 
or major trade publication or other major median. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not show he satisfies two categories of evidence, discussed above. Although the 
Petitioner also argues eligibility for the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach these 
additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 8 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating an example of qualifying media may include 
transcripts of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and the person's work). 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 33960157 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the classification's initial evidentiary requirements . The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
In her initial filing, the Petitioner claimed to qualify under four ofthe initial evidentiary criteria: receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, published material about her in professional 
publications or major media, leading or critical role for establishments with distinguished reputations, 
and commanding a high salary or other remuneration. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iii), (viii)-(ix). The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner met the publications and leading role criteria, which the record 
supports. Since the Petitioner had only met two of the initial evidentiary criteria, rather than the 
required three, the Director denied the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a brief regarding her qualifications for the awards and salary criteria, 
and resubmits various evidence from her underlying petition. Upon review, the record demonstrates 
that the Petitioner commanded a high salary in comparison to others in her field, as required for the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As noted by the appellate brief, the denial stated that the 
Petitioner's annual salary in 2022 was RMB 545,435, but the income tax records provided in the initial 
filing indicate that this amount reflects how much income tax the Petitioner paid. Her remuneration 
in 2022 actually totaled RMB 1,958,142, well above the wage ranges given for others in her field. 
Therefore, the Petitioner qualifies under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 1 
The Petitioner has provided documentation that meets three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and has therefore overcome the basis of the Director's denial. We will therefore 
remand this matter so that the Director can conduct a final merits determination according to the 
Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 Since the Petitioner has met the initial evidentiary requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not reach, and 
therefore reserve, the issue of whether the award qualifies as a lesser nationally recognized award under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make 
"purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); c.f.Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 
526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden 
of proof). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 33960571 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a construction industry executive and entrepreneur, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, frrst-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of 
their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that, contrary 
to the Act, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his work would prospectively benefit the United 
States. The Director also found that, contrary to regulations, the Petitioner met only two of ten initial 
evidentiary criteria for the requested category -one less than needed for a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he established his work's prospective benefits to the country 
and submitted evidence of his: 
• Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• Original contributions of major significance to his field; and 
• Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he established his work's prospective benefit to the United States and his 
receipt of nationally recognized awards. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for a final merits determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either standard, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at their field's very top. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 
2022) (finding USCIS' two-step analysis of extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing 
statute and regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Ethiopian native and citizen, received an advanced diploma 
in building engineering from a university 
in his home country in 1994. The following year, he began 
working as a junior site engineer. The Petitioner worked his way up to project manager before 
founding his own construction company in Ethiopia in 2002. His company now employs about 2,000 
people and, in 2022, generated revenues of about $42 million. The Petitioner states that, in the United 
States, he seeks to establish his own construction company and obtain a contractor's license. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria regarding 
published material about him and his commandment of a high salary in his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (ix). We will first consider whether he demonstrated that his U.S. entry would 
substantially benefit the country in the future. 
B. Prospective Benefit to the United States 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that their "entry 
into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States." Section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. Neither the Act nor regulations define the phrase "substantially benefit." 
But the immigration service has interpreted the phrase broadly. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (holding that, "[g]iven the enormous popularity of golf in this 
country," a highly ranked professional golfer would substantially benefit the United States in the 
future); see also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(A)(3). 
The Director found insufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that his proposed U.S. work 
would upgrade infrastructure and develop affordable homes in the United States. The Director noted 
that a 2023 "pre-joint venture agreement" between the Petitioner's Ethiopian company and a U.S. 
entity indicates the firms' deal "to buy, sell, own and operate . . . real estate property and Truck 
Transportation" in the United States. 2 The Director found these joint venture activities inconsistent 
with the Petitioner's stated U.S. plans to establish his own construction company and obtain a 
contracting license. Because the Petitioner did not explain this discrepancy, the Director found the 
evidentiary criterion unmet. See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring a 
petitioner to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where 
the truth lies). 
On appeal, the Petitioner resolves the perceived discrepancy. He states that he did not offer the pre­
joint venture agreement as proof of his work's prospective benefit to the United States, but rather to 
demonstrate his on-going activities in the construction field. The Petitioner maintains his intent to 
establish his own construction company in this country and describes the separate proposed joint 
venture as "complementary" to his proposed U.S. company. The Petitioner's "professional plan" 
states: "I intend to contribute my expertise to help the U.S. build and upgrade its infrastructure, create 
more local job opportunities, and generate more business tax revenue." 
The Petitioner has sufficiently explained the discrepancy perceived by the Director. Also, in light of 
the immigration service's broad interpretation of the phrase "substantially benefit," the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that his U.S. work would substantially benefit the United States in the future. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
We will next review the additional evidentiary requirements that the Petitioner claims to meet. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). To satisfy these criteria, his evidence must objectively meet the 
parameters of applicable regulatory descriptions. See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B). 
C. Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
This evidentiary criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [ noncitizen ]'s receipt oflesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines if a petitioner -as opposed, for example, 
to their employer -received the prizes or awards. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). Second, the 
Agency determines whether an award is nationally or internationally recognized and granted for 
excellence in the relevant field. Id. 
2 A joint venture is a business entity created by two or more parties, generally characterized by shared ownership, shared 
returns, shared risks, and shared governance. See, e.g., 2 USCIS Policy Manual L.(5)(B) (in the context ofnonimmigrant 
visa petitions for intracompany transferees under section 10l(a)(l5)(L) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 10l(a)(l5)(L), discussing 
joint ventures). 
3 
The Petitioner submitted copies of four certificates of appreciation, excellence, and recognition that 
Ethiopian government ministries and a construction contractors association issued him in 2022 and 
2023 for his work in the construction field. The Petitioner claims that these awards are "recognized 
nationally in Ethiopia" and that he received them for excellence in his field. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of the awards for his work in the field. But the 
Director found insufficient evidence that the organizations issued the certificates for excellence or that 
the awards received national or international recognition. 
The record does not support the Director's findings. Letters from the Ethiopian ministries that issued 
the certificates indicate their award for excellence. For example, a letter from thel I 
states issuance of its certificate of appreciation 
to the Petitioner for his "progressive, outstanding, exemplary and magnificent performances continued 
sustainably over the last 25 years in the Ethiopian construction industry." Also, as the Petitioner 
argues, the certificates from the federal government agencies reflect the awards' national recognition. 
The Petitioner has demonstrated his receipt ofnationally recognized awards for excellence in his field. 
We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Remaining Issues 
The Petitioner has met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant visa 
category. We therefore need not reach and hereby reserve consideration of his appellate arguments 
regarding his claimed original contributions of major significance to his field and his purported 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director did not 
issue such a finding. Rather than make a final merits determination in the first instance, we will 
remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim and his achievements' recognition in the field of expertise 
to establish him as one of that small percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Director should consider all potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, 
even if it does not fit one of the regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. 
Id. The petition's approval or denial depends on the type and quality of the evidence. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner demonstrated his work's prospective benefit to the United States and his receipt of a 
nationally recognized award. USCIS must now conduct a final merits determination. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 26, 2024 In Re: 34886672 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a social media influencer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material ifthe standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains her qualification for four criteria. Issues and 
prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 
336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate she meets at least three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 1 The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she qualifies 
for this criterion based on her "Platinum Creator" membership on the subscription-based social media 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
2 Id. 
2 
platform I I also known as I 3 Associations may have multiple levels of 
membership. 4 The level of membership afforded to the person must show that in order to obtain that 
level ofmembership, recognized national or international experts judged the person as having attained 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
Within her RFE response, the Petitioner provided a June 2024 letter from E-Z-, who states he is Chief 
Creative Officer atl 6 "building platforms that help major brands, creators, and influencers 
grow their online enterprises." He states: 
When creating the I IPlatform, we established a points-based system and 
membership tiers to help us promote and prioritize the most active and engaging 
creators on our platform .... based on the money creators earn and the engagement 
they achieve through their content curation. 
[The Petitioner] is a member of our elite "Platinum" creator membership tier. To 
receive this membership level, [the Petitioner] first had to apply to join the platform. 
Unlike other platforms, Platform operates on an application-only 
basis.... Our vision is to curate a community of professional, top-level creators that 
embody our company values and align with our views on civil rights, reproductive 
access, and queer liberation. As a part of this, we also review applications for that "it" 
factor, which transcends gender and encompasses an essence of mystery, swagger, and 
confidence. Following our review, [the Petitioner's] application was promptly 
approved, and she was granted access to the creator platform. 
Since joining thel IPlatform, [the Petitioner] has rapidly risen to the top 
percentage of professional creators we feature on our platform. She has, in rapid 
fashion, amassed 588,281 points and achieved Platinum membership status .... in less 
than a year of activity on our platform. This clear success is a direct result of [the 
Petitioner's] exceptional ability as a content creator. ... 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots of pages from what she asserts is her 
Platform profile page, showing she has achieved Platinum status and earned "588,281 of lMM points 
3 The Petitioner does not pursue her previous claim that her possession of a "verification badge" or "blue check" on her 
Instagram account is a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g., O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. Therefore, we will only respond to the Petitioner's claims regarding her 
Platinum Creator status on the _____ Platform. 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 Id. (providing that as a possible example, general membership in an international organization for engineering and 
technology professionals may not meet the requirements of the criterion; however, if that same organization at the fellow 
level requires, in part, that a nominee have accomplishments that have, for example, contributed importantly to the 
advancement or application of engineering, science, and technology, and that a council of expe1is and a committee of 
current fellows judges the nominations for fellows, that higher, fellow level may be qualifying.) 
6 We note that although E-Z-indicates he previously served as CEO of the exclusive content platfo1m his letter is on 
Oletterhead, not that ofl IIn addition, his accompanying employment profiles on linkedin.com, __com, 
and forbes.com do not indicate his employment with I I To the extent that this information is inconsistent with 
E-Z-'s letter, this inconsistency should be resolved in any future filing in this matter. 
3 
earned." The materials indicate she previously completed Silver, and Gold, and that her next 
status is Diamond. 
First, regarding the Petitioner's application to join thel !Platform, the letter from E-Z­
does not explain how aligning with the company's "views on civil rights, reproductive access, and 
queer liberation" and possessing "an essence of mystery, swagger, and confidence" are outstanding 
achievements. In addition, his letter does not address the selecting body who judges the membership 
criteria and whether it is comprised of recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted an article dated 2023 from netinfulence.com, confirming that __ 
celebrated the first anniversary of the subscription-based I I social media platform, and 
articles from studyfinds.org and nytimes.com about the name recognition of the I I brand and 
the prominent effect that I I Magazine has had on popular culture. The issue for this criterion, 
however, is whether the individuals who determine membership are recognized national or 
international experts rather than the reputation of the company who employs them. We are not 
persuaded that every employee who works for a recognized company is also a recognized national or 
international expert in their field. Although the Petitioner submitted articles regarding the reputation 
of the I I company, the Petitioner did not address the selecting body who judges the I I 
I I Platform membership criteria and whether it is comprised of recognized national or 
international experts in their fields. 
Moreover, the documentation submitted does not sufficiently explain how Platinum status is awarded 
tol !Platform members, and that such status requires outstanding achievement as judged 
by experts in the social media influencing field. We note that the screenshots submitted from the 
I !Platform website do not contain the Petitioner's name, to confirm that the information 
pertains to her. Assuming the Petitioner had established it does, the materials indicate a creator 
achieves Platinum status by earning an unstated minimum number ofpoints up to "IMM." Based on 
this limited description of Platinum status, it is an objective, bright-line threshold, and it is reasonable 
to conclude that members who meet the threshold number of points will be granted Platinum status. 
The Petitioner did not establish that the I I Platform requires outstanding achievements 
of their members for Platinum status, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields (emphasis added). 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the individual's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that an individual has performed 
in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet 
this criterion. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the 
individual's s commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 7 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
The Petitioner maintains eligibility for this criterion based on comparable evidence, including through 
the submission of her "2023 tax return, including her Schedule C (Form 1040) and Schedule I (Form 
1040), confirming [she] is claiming $3,257,612 in profit earned by [her limited liability company] as 
income on her taxes in 2023," and a copy of the 2023 Financial Package for the company confirming 
"that the primary sources of this income are and, therefore, earned through 
[her] activities as a social media influencer and content creator." The Director ultimately determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish how her claims are truly "comparable" to the commercial successes 
criterion. 8 We agree. The above evidence reflects the Petitioner's remuneration for work as a social 
media influencer and content creator rather than showing how her work for has 
received high sales, receipts, or comparable evidence ofcommercial success relative to others involved 
in similar pursuits in the performing arts. Accordingly, she has not established that she satisfies this 
criterion, including through the submission of comparable evidence. 
B. Prior approval of 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 
724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish she satisfies the two categories of evidence, including through 
comparable evidence, discussed above. Although the Petitioner also argues eligibility for the 
published material in certain media criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 10 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
8 Id. 
9 See also generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is othe1wise ineligible). 
5 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. l9-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021 ), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10088671 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business development executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
and therefore did not satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an owner, co-founder, and senior business executive of luxury furniture company I I which does business asl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (iii), Published materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence of published materials about him and relating 
to his work to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director also concluded that the 
Petitioner commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his 
field, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Finally, the Director determined that, while the Petitioner 
established his leading role withl lhe did not provide independent evidence establishing 
the distinguished reputation of that organization and therefore did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi ii). 
The record reflects that articles about the Petitioner, relating to his work tori I have been 
featured in Architectural Digest and home decor industry publications and therefore we agree with the 
Director's conclusion that he satisfied the published materials criterion. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director overlooked or mischaracterized ample evidence 
pertaining to .___ ____ ___.s distinguished reputation in its industry in determining that he did not 
satisfy the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner's assertions 
2 
are persuasive, as the record contains substantial independent evidence demonstrating the company's 
reputation. For example, the company, its furniture products, and its high-profile business partnerships 
with retailers, hospitality chains and a renowned furniture designer have received media coverage in 
Architectural Digest, Elle Decor, Forbes, and other publications. Based on this evidence, we will 
withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not meet the leading or critical roles criterion. 
However, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the evidence does not support the 
Director's finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of the third claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he commands a high 
salary, or significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in his field in similar 
positions. 1 
A letter accompanying the initial filing identifies the Petitioner's position as a "brand development 
executive" and indicates thaU I pays him an annual salary of $195,000 and additional 
benefits (including coverage of his housing, automobile costs, and "personal expenses") totaling 
$263,000.1 Is controller provided a letter confirming that, per the Petitioner's 
employment agreement, the company makes mortgage and car payments on his behalf valued at 
approximately $110,000 annually. The Petitioner did not account for the remaining $153,000 in 
benefits and the record does not contain a copy of the referenced employment agreement. A 
petitioner's unsupported statements are of very limited weight and normally will be insufficient to 
carry its burden of proof, particularly when supporting documentary evidence would reasonably be 
available. The Petitioner must support their assertions with relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
The Petitioner's 2018 individual federal tax return indicates that he reported actual wages of $178,092 
and additional income of $452,284 derived from I ts profits, which he received as a 
40 percent owner of the company. Copies of his recent paystubs confirm that he was being paid a 
salary of $195,000 in 2019. 
The Petitioner submitted geographically targeted comparative salary data sourced from U.S. 
Department of Labor resources and Glassdoor. However, this evidence does not provide a meaningful 
comparison of the Petitioner's salary or total remuneration in relation to others in his field. 
First, the comparative salary information provided is for the occupations of marketing manager, sales 
manager, director of sales and marketing, senior sales and marketing executives, and other sales and 
marketing related positions. The record does not reflect that the Petitioner is a sales or marketing 
manager; in fact,1 l's organizational chart identifies him as the senior executive in the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. 
3 
company and shows that he supervises two employees with Vice President of Sales job titles as well 
as managerial and support staff dedicated to operations, warehousing, financial, and other company 
functions. Moreover, the com:any's supporting letter confirms the chief executive nature of the 
Petitioner's role.I l·s Creative Director.I I confirms that the Petitioner 
"[a]s the comp1ny's seTor most executive ... is responsible for the overall operations and 
management of ' including "every aspect of our U.S. and international business" with 
oversight of "international supply chain and logistics, expenses and accounting, operations, sales and 
integration." Based on this information, the record does not establish that the submitted salary data 
for sales and marketing managers and related occupations provided a meaningful basis for comparing 
the Petitioner's salary in relation to others working in similar positions. 
As a result, the record does not include objective earnings data showing that the Petitioner has earned 
a "high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing similar work 
in a chief executive capacity during the same time period. See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); 
see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Further, even if we determined that the submitted salary information was appropriate given the 
Petitioner's occuf)ation, he seeks to compare his total compensation (including his base salary, benefits 
and his share of~----~·s profits) to surveys that report only base salary figures. For 
example, the Petitioner compares his total compensation figure to the U.S. Department of Labor data 
for both Sales Managers and Marketing Managers in thel O lmetropolitan area at the Level 
4, or fully competent, wage. The Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) data submitted from the 
FLCDatacenter.com website does not include bonuses or benefits. 2 Therefore, the appropriate figure 
for means of comparison is the Petitioner's base salary of $195,000. The Petitioner's salary exceeds 
the reported average Level 4 wages for both sales managers and marketing managers in I O I 
but it does not meet the "high" wage for these occupations as reported on the U.S. Department of 
Labor's CareerOneStop resource. Even if the Petitioner had established that he is employed as a sales 
manager or marketing manager, this evidence would not establish that his salary is high, as opposed 
to just above average, in comparison to others in the field. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria and therefore has not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
2 See the OES FAQ page at https://www.bls.gov/oes/oes_ques.htm (last visited on Nov. 24, 2020). 
4 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. The record reflects that the Petitioner has co-founded and led a successful, 
family-owned luxury furniture company with a growing reputation and market share in its industry, 
and that he and his brother have both received some media recognition as the "faces" of the company. 
However, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that he is one of the smal I percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11972653 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor and researcher in the field of law, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through either 
the receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed as an Associate Professor of law at I I University 
at the time she filed the instant petition. She earned a Ph.D. in jurisprudence in 2009 from ___ ..........., 
Universit , and also serves as the Deputy Procurator General in the .__ ______ _. 
She states that she intends to continue working in the field oflaw in the United 
States by developing legal and academic exchanges and conduct legal research. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material about her and her work, and her contributions of 
major significance to the field of law. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
it does not establish that the initial evidence requirements have been met. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the published material must be about a petitioner and his 
or her work in the field, be published in one of the qualifying types of publications, and include 
sufficient identifying information (title, date and author) to establish its authenticity. In addition, all 
material written in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English translation in accordance 
with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), which also requires that the translation be accompanied by a translator's 
certification. 
2 
In his decision, the Director found that the submitted evidence was about the Petitioner and her work, 
but was not published in qualifying types of media. However, on review, we disagree with the Director 
that the published material is about the Petitioner. Specifically, the Petitioner initially submitted two 
articles, one of which appears to have been taken from a website but does not include the website 
address. This article, which the translation indicates was written by a correspondent for the Qian Jiang 
Evening News, is titled'.__ _____________ ~" and is about the age of consent in 
China. The Petitioner is interviewed as an expert on the subject, and she describes a recent case in 
.__ __ __.land explains the relevant law. Even though the Petitioner is named and interviewed in the 
article, this material is not about her, but about the laws concerning the age of consent. In addition, 
we note although the Petitioner provided evidence of the circulation of the Qian Jiang Evening News, 
this article appears to have been posted on a website which the evidence does not identify. We 
therefore agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that this material was published 
in a professional or major trade publication, or other major media. 
The second article the Petitioner initially submitted was published in Zhejiang Legal News onl I 
02019, and includes three paragraphs about the Petitioner which have been translated into English. 
While the Petitioner describes this as an article "on 13 highly respected legal experts," the rest of the 
article is not translated, and thus the translation is not compliant with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). In 
addition, since only a small portion of this published material is about the Petitioner, it is not about 
her. This finding farther is supported by the title of the article, "This is a place worth goinf to 
exP,erience and do business," which appears to reference '1 ' of 
thel I which she speaks about. Although the evidence sufficiently 
demonstrates that Zhejiang Legal News is a professional publication, this evidence does not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. 
In responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a third article 
which she asserts supports her qualification under this criterion. That evidence consisted of two 
paragraphs, which are accompanied by her photograph, published in Zhejiang Legal Update as part of 
a page titled 1 I In those paragraphs, the Petitioner provides her opinion regarding the 
This material is not about her, but is either a direct 
quotation of her or written by her, and thus does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classffication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion, but did not provide an explanation for his 
finding. On review, we note that the evidence shows that she performed an evaluation of a master's 
degree thesis as part of her duties as an associate professor atl I and that she was listed as a 
member of the editorial committee of,__ _________ __., which appears to be a professional 
publication. In responding to the Director's RFE, she submitted additional evidence, including a text 
message thanking her for participating in a provincial legal essay competition, as well as website pages 
3 
showing her scoring and evaluation for the 2019 .__ ______ __.University Student Legal 
Profession Competition. We agree with the Director that this evidence is sufficient to show that the 
Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner initiall focused on her roles as Deputy Procurator (Prosecutor) General of thel I 
-----,------~ and as the Director of the I I Law Research Association of the 
.__ __ __.Law Society, and referred to reference letters to support these claims. However, as noted by 
the Director in his RFE, the letters provided little detailed information about specific contributions she 
had made. 
In response, the Petitioner narrowed her claim under this criterion to the work she performed in 
drafting amendments to China's~ __________ despite not reviousl claimin to have 
expertise in this legal area. She submitted a copy of a document titled '-----~------' 
of which states that 
was the project leader for the project of ~--------------~~~ 
' with the Petitioner and four other members of the ---------------------' faculty assigned to specific topics. A le states that ~he Petitioner "i;, 
a nationally renowned expert in the realms of~------- and 1 Y 
again despite the ,revious claims to her expertise focusing in the legal areas of,.____, _____ __._, 
an~ J law. He indicates that the Petitioner served as chief drafter for the~-----~ 
I I' section, and that the drafts "are currently under review by the People's Congress of 
Legislature." However, this letter does not provide specifics on the amendments proposed in the 
Petitioner's draft, or how those amendments would impact the overall field oflaw. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director downplayed the importance of this aspect of the 
Petitioner's work, and that the new law will impact "not only entire China, but the international 
business community." She also submits additional evidence of the impact of her work, including a 
copy of the report she authored containing a research summary and proposed revisions to sections of 
the c=J, and a new letter from~ _____ ...., However, where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We further note 
that the evidence does not indicate that the Petitioner's proposed revisions had been accepted into the 
final version of the revisedc=] at the time of filing. Because the evidence does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's proposed revisions to the D have been implemented, we find that it does not 
establish that she has made a contribution to the field of law. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted several copies of articles which she authored which were published in 
journals, together with English translations. These include papers which appeared in People's 
Tribune, Political Science and Law, and Journal of Juvenile Crimes and Delinquency, which the 
evidence establishes are professional journals. We therefore agree with the Director and find that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12032700 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alternative, met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed 
the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The Petitioner than filed a combined motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider, which we also dismissed. 
The matter is now before us on a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits a statement in which he asserts that he meets all requirements for this classification. 
He also submits new evidence along with copies of previously submitted evidence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We interpret "new facts" to mean 
facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in 
the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b){l){A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
who have earned sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, and whose entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must submit evidence that 
either establishes a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or meets 
at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established 
that our decision to dismiss his first motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect 
application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he 
2 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that he met none of those criteria. After a de nova review of the 
record, we reached the same conclusions and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. We dismissed the 
motion to reconsider because the Petitioner did not submit a brief or other statement with his motion 
or otherwise contend that we had incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our appellate decision. 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen was supported by new evidence related to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and (vi), and a reference letter that attested to his sustained acclaim in his field. 
However, we determined that the new evidence did not establish his eligibility or overcome the 
conclusions we reached in dismissing his appeal. 
The Petitioner now submits a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which includes a 
brief, new evidence and copies of evidence that was previously submitted. He asserts that the new 
evidence establishes that he meets the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, membership in associations which require outstanding achievements, published materials 
about him and relating to his work, and his performance in leading or critical roles for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i), (ii), (iii) and 
(viii). 
A. Motion to Reopen 
In support of his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits a new letter from I I I I of the .---~...,.tional Karate Federation! ~ the national federation of the sport as 
recognized b the National Olympic Committee, and the World and European Karate 
Federations.,___ ____ ___, discusses the Petitioner's membership on thel I National Karate 
Team, notes some of the competitions in which he participated and asserts that his performance on the 
team was "leading and critical." Therefore, it appears that his letter is intended to address the membership 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.S(h )(3)(vi ii). 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires a petitioner to provided evidence of membership in 
associations in the field which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner weviously 
submitted a letter fromDPresident,.__ ____ __.confirming his membership with thLJand 
the I I national karate team, but that letter did not elaborate on the requirements for these 
memberships and therefore did not establish that his membership on the I I national team satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Instead, the Petitioner had relied on a letter from I I 
_____ V~i.....,ce President of the,___ _____ __. Karetedo Federation! I-While 
____ __.s letter provided some information regarding the procedures used by c=]to select the 
national karate team, we emphasized in our decision that I I is not a representative 
._o_f,r----,_a ..... nd that the record did not include official D rules or other documentation describing the 
selection process and the qualifications of those who determine membership. 
,._I ___ __,_____Jl's letter is more detailed than that previously provided from formerDPresidentD 
.... I ___ ___,I but not does elaborate on the selection process tori I national team members. 
3 
Therefore, it does not overcome our previous determination that the record lacks evidence that 
membership on the team requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. The Petitioner also re-submitcl Is letter and offers his own eJplanaton 
of thec=]s national team selection process. However, absent independent evidence from th the 
entity responsible for making selections, the Petitioner has not established that his membership on the 
team meets all elements of the meets the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner also relies on the letter fromL.---__,,~ in support of his claim that he performed in 
a leading or critical role for thc=:land thd ..... __ ____.I national karate team. We previously determined 
that, while the Petitioner claimed to meet the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii), he had not submitted evidence from thg in support of his claim, nor had he 
submitted evidence to establish that thec=Jor thel ~nal karate team enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. 
In his letter) , , I states that the Petitioner's individual gold medal at the I I Karate 
World Championships," held in.___~--~-_. 2014, was critical to thd I team's bronze 
medal at this event. He also more generally states that the Petitioner's "performances have been 
contributing to the overall standing and ranking of the team during various competitions." While the 
record contains evidence related to the Petitioner's participation in a competition inl I 
2014, it does not suppor~._ ____ _.ts claim that this was a world championship event in karate, that 
the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event, or that the I I national karate team received a bronze 
medal at the event. 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate dated I , 12014 indicjting
1 that he was "the champion of 
the private championships of boys for showing excellent results in the Tournament of Military Arts" 
held at thel I school in Japan. The certificate, which was in Japanese, was not accompanied by 
an acceptable English translation as the translator did not indicate that he translated the document from 
the Japanese language. 
The record also contains an article from the website of the....__ ______ _____. Karate-do New 
Zealand about the I I Anniversary Festival held in ~-.,___~ _ __. I I 2014. Accordina to this article, teams from 10 countries (including.___ _ ____.attended 
the festival, which included a [ I World Tournament" featuring individual and team 
competitions. There are no official results from the event and the article does not mention the performance 
of the I I team or the Petitioner. Therefore, the evidence does not suppor~ Is 
assertion that the Petitioner's performance led thel I national team to a bronze medal at this event 
or that this event was the "world championship" in his sport.1 The new evidence does not establish that 
the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role with the Dor thel !national karate 
team. Further, the new evidence does not address our determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
that thel !national karate team enjoys a distinguished reputation in the sport. 
1 The record includes a screenshot of the Petitioner's athlete profile from the World Karate Federation (WKF) which lists 
his results in events which award point values that contribute towards an athlete's WKF competitor rankin . This evidence 
shows that the Petitioner competed for I ~t the WKF's 2016 World Championships in amon other 
qualifying competitions) but he did not win any matches or place at that event. The 2014 .........,.. __ __.'world 
championship" mentioned byl I does not appear among the qualifying events listed. 
4 
In addition tol J J ~s letter, the Petitioner has submitted new evidence for consideration under 
the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Specificall , the Petitioner submits a letter 
froml I host of the I !television program'------...-----....----_.__._....., I lstates that the Petitioner was featured in an episode of the program that aired on~--~ 
Second channel in February 2020 and was watched by more than 125,000 viewers. His letter is 
accompanied by a transcript from the program. However, even if we considered this evidence sufficient 
to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we note that this television appearance occurred nearly 
two years after the date the petition was filed and cannot establish that the Petitioner met the eligibility 
requirements at the time of filing as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1).2 The Petitioner has not submitted 
any new evidence related to this criterion that pre-dates the filing of the petition and has not overcome 
our previous determination that he did not meet the published materials criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, while the Petitioner has submitted new evidence in support of his motion, 
he has not submitted evidence that establishes his eligibility under any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his previous 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy 
and was incorrect at the time of that decision. 
As noted, we dismissed the previous motion to reconsider because the Petitioner did not provide a brief 
or statement in support of his motion and therefore did not "state the reasons for reconsideration" as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Although the Petitioner has submitted a statement in support of 
the current motion, he does not contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the 
previous motion to reconsider or in assessing the new evidence submitted in support of his first motion 
to reopen. 
The Petitioner cannot establish grounds for reconsideration by repeating prior arguments and assertions 
regarding his qualifications or by generally disagreeing with the denial of his petition. To warrant 
reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish errors of law or policy (as documented by any relevant 
precedent decisions or other cited law or policy) or errors of fact (through a showing the decision was 
incorrect based on the record as it stood at the time of the prior decision). The Petitioner's statement in 
support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we reached in our prior decision 
or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. 
As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(4) requires dismissal of the motion. 
2 Evidence from after the filing date can properly be viewed in the context of showing that a given petitioner remains 
eligible for the benefit sought, but we need not take such evidence into consideration if the record does not show that the 
petitioner was already eligible at the time of filing. 
5 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. The motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9731182 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology professional , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he is coming to the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an information technology professional who specializes in Cloud computing and e­
mail security technology. The record reflects that he has worked tori I, a leading network 
security company, at its,__ ________ __. since 2001. He indicates that he intends to 
establish his own IT consulting company in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to published materials in major media at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), scholarly articles 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Although 
the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements, he concluded in the 
final merits determination that the record did not establish that he had the sustained national or 
international acclaim required for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been the subject of two articles published in major Chinese 
media, authored several scholarly articles in professional publications, and performed in a critical role 
tori I which enjoys a distinguished reputation in its industry. Accordingly, we will not 
disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner met three criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that he did not also meet the 
criteria relating to lesser nationally recognized awards and original contributions of major significance. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v). Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies three criteria, 
2 
we will evaluate his claims regarding these two additional criteria in reviewing the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 2 In this matter, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner began his career in the 1990s withl I I I and has been employed by I Is'------~-------' inl I 
China since 2001. According to an employment certificate provided by the company, he currently 
works as a research and development director in the Department of Foundation Software Development 
responsible for email security software products. The Petitioner did not submit a copy of his 
curriculum vitae or copies of his educational credentials, but we note that other evidence in the record 
indicates that he has a bachelor's degree in chemistry and a master's degree in software engineering 
froml I University. The Petitioner also provided a certificate from the Project Management 
Institute awarding him a "Project Management Professional (PMP)" credential. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has submitted evidence of published materials about him, evidence 
that he authored scholarly articles in professional publications, and evidence of his critical role with I I The Petitioner also emphasizes his contributions to industry awards received by his 
employer and his original contributions to his field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that 
his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
ublished materials, the Petitioner submitted an article titled 17 
1--------------...i....i::.=ub=l..:.-=-;ished by www.sohu.com, and an article titled i J 
published online at tech.china.com and sourced from 
'-:c::i::-:-:in=--=a:-. p=--=r=cr:e=-. c=-=o:-::m=-.---i-1==-,-J-~-::-~r:-,;,.,=:_-=- ;,..=-_-:,._.-=-:...,c1=-==c---a::-:r=-=e----::':s Im i I ar in content and provide d etai Is regarding the 
Petitioner's projects at .___ ___ _.were published ire=] 2019, approximately two months prior to 
the filing of the petition. While the Director determined that the articles were about the Petitioner and 
published in major media, he emphasized that both articles are very recent and therefore do not 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
establish that he has garnered sustained national acclaim in the form of media recognition for his 
achievements. The Director also noted that only two articles were provided, noting that this 
classification is intended for those "whose achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation." Section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that it is a "rare achievement" for an employee of a technology 
company to be deemed a subject worthy of national media coverage, and argues that the Director 
should have focused on the quality of the evidence, rather than the quantity. However, the Director 
did not solely focus on the quantity of evidence submitted. The Director also emphasized that the only 
evidence of published materials was very recent and for that reason did not support a determination of 
sustained acclaim, an observation that is not addressed by the Petitioner on appeal. 
While we acknowledge evidence that the articles were published on popular Chinese media portals, 
the Petitioner has not adequately supported his claim that it is "rare" for an individual in his field to 
receive media recognition or that any such recognition indicates that he is among that small percentage 
at the very top of the field. Both articles detail the Petitioner's academic and professional background 
and career progression withinl I they do not convey how he has already been recognized 
in the industry based on his achievements to date. Finally, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner did not establish that the publication of two articles just prior to the filing of this petition is 
indicative of his "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that he had authored six articles 
published in professional publications between 1996 and 2019. Publication of research does not 
automatically place an individual at the top of the field. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence differentiating his publication rate from that of others in his field, or 
otherwise establish that publication of six articles over a period of 23 years is indicative of his standing 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that his "important academic papers should be evaluated in the context 
of his significant accomplishments in applying theory to real-world practice," noting that since he has 
spent his career in industry rather than academia, his publication record can "lend strong support" to 
his eligibility for this classification. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that his overall 
publication rate should not be compared to those in researchers working strictly in academic settings, 
we note that he offers no other reference point for comparison. 
Nevertheless, we have not solely evaluated the number of papers published by the Petitioner. The 
Petitioner's citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other researchers 
have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Of the Petitioner's six publications, he provided 
evidence that three of them have been cited by others. Specifically, he provided evidence that they 
have been cited 18, 8 and 2 times, respectively. While the citations to the Petitioner's publications, 
both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed his work, he did not establish that 
4 
such rates of citation demonstrate a level of interest in his field commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show 
that the citations to his research represent attention at a level consistent with being among small 
percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Finally, while the Petitioner 
submitted letters from two professors atl I University praising his 2013 article published in 
Journal of Com]iuter Applications, neither individual explains how the publication of this paper, or 
tha~---~product(s) that incorporated his research, resulted in any individual recognition to the 
Petitioner or contributed to his sustained acclaim in his field. 
With respect the Petitioner's roles with I 11 I a senior vice president with the 
company, highlights the Petitioner's two most recent positions, notin that rior to his current position, 
he led the research and development team responsible for the which included: 
describes the Petitioner as the "technical backbone and team leader" of ,..___~ 
the project and as "a major contributor for the smooth release" of the team's products, noting that this 
software received multiple awards in 2006. He further explains that, since 2011, the Petitioner has 
served as a research and development director leading a team responsible for developing the 
company's email security software including I I He exp I ai ns the Petition~e-r-, s-t-ec_h_n-ic_a_l -co-n-tr-i b-u-t-io_n_s-an_d_h i_g_h_l i g-h-ts_t_h_e_m_a_r-ke~t 
leading position of these products as ranked by industry publications such as IDC MarketScape. In a 
second statement, I I describes some of the Petitioner's contributions to the company's 
technologies in more detail, noting that he has been responsible for the ongoing development of 
products and services that generate tens of millions of dollars in software sales annually. 
While the Director determined that this evidence was sufficient to establish the Petitioner's critical 
role with the company, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner's employment atl I 
has garnered him individual recognition outside of the company at a level consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim. His employer has acknowledged his contributions with internal 
awards, including a "Successful Launch Award" in 2002, two "Product Delivery Excellence" awards 
in 2003, and an "Saas Excellence Award" in 2011. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
did not give sufficient weirt tol evidence that he directly contributed to the company's recei t of 
several industry awards in including a PC Magazine "Best Product" award for 
.-=====,-----------,,-.1 a CPW magazine award for 
,___ _ _.land a Software World magazine Golden Software A~w-a-rd,....,f=-o ..... r --------~-~ 
The letters froml I indicate that the,___ ___ ~---~ developed some of these 
products under the Petitioner's leadership, but the evidence as a whole does not establish that the 
company or the awarding entities acknowledge the Petitioner to be the recipient of these industry 
awards received by I lor deem the awards to be directly attributable to his work. The 
Petitioner's contributions to these and other successful! ]products substantiate his claim 
that he has served in a critical role for the company. However, even if we deemed the Petitioner to be 
the recipient of these awards as claimed, the record as a whole does not support a conclusion that his 
efforts resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim or that he is recognized in the industry 
as being among the small percentage at the very top of the field as a result of his contributions to these 
products. 
5 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that he established that he has made oriainal contributions of 
major significance in his field, emphasizing his role in developing I ] products that "reach 
millions of users worldwide, including most of the lar est corporations in the world." The record 
includes a letter from I la professor at University, who states that thel I 
product developed under the Petitioner's leadership at.___ __ ____. was "one of the earliest micro­
service-based systems in the industry to be put into actual commercial operation," and notes that it 
was the topic of the Petitioner's master's thesis research and his 2013 paper published in the Journal 
of Computer Applications. I l who was the Petitioner's thesis advisor atl I 
University, discusses this same research in his letter, noting that the micro-service architecture the 
Petitioner proposed is based on "four principles of system design" which "not only had a breakthrough 
in theory, but also has been well validated in the actual development and deployment." However, the 
record does not establish how this research,! ts product, or the related published article 
(which had been cited eight times in six years) had a significant impact or influence in the field or how 
it has garnered the Petitioner the requisite sustained national or international acclaim in the industry. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been named as a co-inventor on one U.S. patent application 
atl !filed inl I 2019. I I describes this invention as '1 I email 
technology [the Petitioner] developed based on computer vision" which ,__ ______ ____. with 
machine learning technology to distinguish I I email, which improves the detection rate of 
!email by more than 10 times." He opines that the invention "surely will become an 
~im_p_o-rt-an-t~technology in the field of I I detection in the future" but does not address its 
current impact or influence on the field or indicate that it has already been recognized in the industry 
as a major contribution. 
We have recognized! Is distinguished reputation in its industry and acknowledge that its 
products are highly regarded and widely used, but we cannot determine based on the evidence 
submitted that the Petitioner's individual contributions to these products have been widely influential 
in the industry, that they have had a significant impact beyond his own employer and its customers, or 
that they have resulted in his sustained acclaim or placed him among the small percentage of individual 
at the very top of his field. 
Finally, we acknowledge that three experts in the network security field have commented on the 
Petitioner's standing in this field. I I describes the Petitioner as "an outstanding talent" 
and "a top researcher and developer" in the field of cloud computing and e-mail security and states 
that he is "an excellent person who can create tremendous economic value." I I notes that 
the Petitioner "is a rare high-end cloud computing talent" whose software design experience~ 
c=]'have made him a leader in e-mail scanning analysis technical and distributed design."l___J 
c=]who states that he served as the Petitioner's manager atc=]in the late 1990s, indicates that the 
Petitioner proved himself to be "a good leader" and "a technical genius" who has since "worked 
continuously at the forefront of network security." While the Petitioner has earned the praise of his 
colleagues and mentors, the letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the 
record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall 
field as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve 
the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to "continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability" as required under section 203(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act. See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings 
on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 
26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10907511 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bodybuilder , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers , 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did the foreign national demonstrate that he met any of the four regulatory criteria he 
initially claimed. We came to the same conclusion within our appellate decision. The Petitioner now 
submits a combined motion to reopen and reconsider and asserts that he meets the same criteria we 
discussed within our appellate decision. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence .2 Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor . 3 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A ), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reopen is based on new facts that are supported by documentary evidence, and a motion 
to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), and the requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). If warranted, we may grant requests that satisfy these requirements, then 
make a new eligibility determination. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), specifically issuing an adverse determination relating to prizes 
or awards, membership, published material, and a leading or critical role. In dismissing the 
Petitioner's appeal, we came to the same conclusion. Within the motions, the Petitioner addresses each 
of these same criteria. For the reasons discussed below, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
overcome our reasoning within the appeal dismissal through new evidence in its motion to reopen, nor 
has it established that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy as required to meet the requirements for filing a motion to 
reconsider. 
A. Procedural Shortcomings 
As an initial issue, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii) requires that a motion must be accompanied 
by a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding. We note 
that the Petitioner did not submit a statement relating to this mandate. Pertaining to this shortcoming, the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that a motion that does not meet applicable requirements 
shall be dismissed. As the Petitioner did not provide the required statement, the motions must be 
dismissed based solely on this essential regulatory requirement. 
Second, the Petitioner has not met the requirements for a motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must 
state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence.4 We interpret "new facts" to mean those 
that are relevant to the issues raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the 
proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting 
previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." Notably, the Petitioner does not offer 
any new facts that are supported by documentary evidence. Instead, the Petitioner mirrors arguments 
made in his previous filing on appeal. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 5 
4 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
5 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Within our decision on the appeal, we determined that although the Petitioner documented his receipt 
of prizes or awards, he did not establish that the accolades were nationally or internationally 
recognized. On motion, the Petitioner contests our decision relating to several competitions. Within 
his motion to reconsider, the Petitioner claims that the events where he received awards were 
internationally recognized events and were covered in major publications. 
As it relates to the International Federation of Bodybuildin~ and Fitness's (IFBB)0 Central 
American and Caribbean Fitness Championships held in the I the Petitioner 
finished in first place in th~ I category. The Petitioner has demonstrated that this 
placement at this competition satisfies the plain language requirements of this criterion. As a result, 
it is unnecessary that we discuss his remaining claims under this criterion, but we will broadly analyze 
all his prizes and awards within any final merits determination if the Petitioner meets at least two other 
regulatory criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's membership in the IFBB and the 
Venezuelan Federation of Bodybuilding and Fitness (FVFC) .. We concluded that he did not establish 
that either of those organizations, or any of their teams, require outstanding achievements as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Coming to that conclusion we considered the letter from I lof the FVFC, and we noted that while he stated the Petitioner "participated 
as an athlete of the national team," he did not address the membership requirements of the organization 
or any of its teams. 
On motion, the Petitioner provides his own assessment of the membership requir~ments for the FVFC 
stating "you must be a bodybuilder with outstanding achievements," and he points to ~ s letter 
as proving he is a member who possesses outstanding achievements. The Petitioner asserts that we either 
misunderstood or ignored! b letter. A review ofl Is letter does not reveal any 
information relating to FVFC membership requirements. The record further lacks other evidence related 
to FVFC's membership requirements, such as bylaws, that might demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
membership satisfies the plain language of the criterion. 
Within his motion, the Petitioner does not address his IFBB membership and we consider his claims 
associated with that organization to be abandoned. 6 As a result, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
our decision was based on an incorrect and he has not shown that he possesses the type of membership 
as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
6 See e.g, Matter of Zhang, 27 l&N Dec. 569 n.2 (BIA 2019). See also Walker v. Sankhi, 494 F. App'x 140, 142 (2d Cir. 
2012) (citing Tolbert v. Queens Coll., 242 F.3d 58, 75 (2d Cir. 2001). 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence shall include 
the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Our decision dismissing the appeal discussed a Y ouTube channel associated with Muscular 
Development Latino, noting the video containing the Petitioner garnered very few views, and 
recognized that the Petitioner offered several articles that may have mentioned him but that were not 
"about him." We farther noted deficiencies with translations of documents that the Director discussed 
when he denied the petition, but the Petitioner failed to remedy within the appeal other than to claim 
that the certified translations were adequate. Due to those shortcomings, we did not evaluate whether 
that material qualified as major media. 
Within the motions, the Petitioner states that we erred in our appellate decision when we determined 
"that the articles do not mention him." To the contrary, we acknowledged that his name was listed as 
one of many athletes, but that the article itself was not about him. Consequently, this is not an accurate 
claim of an error, and it will not serve as a basis for reconsideration under this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner farther claims that although the articles mention his name alongside other 
competitors, that as a member of the national team, "this does not mean that the article was not about 
his achievements." However, the motion brief does not identify any specific article the Petitioner 
wishes to rely on within this proceeding. A review of the material reveals several articles that are 
about competitions with some articles offering a brief description of the event, and all of which list 
the Petitioner's name among dozens of competitors in various classes. This material is clearly not 
about the Petitioner. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires that 
the published material be "about the alien" and an article that is not about the Petitioner does not meet 
this regulatory criterion. 7 
On the issue of the coverage qualifying as major media, the articles appeared on mdlatino.com and 
culturismoweb.com. To demonstrate these articles appeared in a qualifying publication type, the 
Petitioner should submit evidence showing that each publication's circulation is high in comparison 
to other circulation statistics and establish its intended audience. 8 The Petitioner only provided 
evidence relating to mdlatino.com in the form of printouts from a web analytics service in an attempt 
to demonstrate it is a form of major media. The analytics for mdlatino.com lists a ranking of 699,906. 
The Petitioner does not explain what that ranking represents in general or how it compares to the 
circulation statistics of other competitors. It is not clear from this evidence that this website is a form 
of major media. Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any documentary evidence associated with 
culturismoweb.com to show that it qualifies as major media. 
7 See Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D. Cal. Apr. 9, 2020) (quoting Noroozi v. 
Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (finding that articles that are about a team or a competition and only 
briefly mention an alien do not satisfy the published material criterion); see also general~v. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL I 0697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show 
or a character within a show are not about the performer). 
8 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy 
Memo), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
Because the Petitioner has not offered probative evidence demonstrating that (1) the published material 
was about him rather than about competitions, and (2) the publications were a form of major media, 
he has not shown that our adverse appellate decision relating to this criterion was incorrect. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In dismissing the appeal, we noted the Petitioner's claims of performing in a leading and critical role 
for the FVFe "by competing and winning at ... international tournaments" and by working as "a 
national bodybuilding instructor." We observed that the Petitioner did not show how his competition 
finishes affected the FVFe resulting in him performing in a critical role for the organization. We 
additionally concluded that considering his "national bodybuilding instructor" title, the Petitioner did not 
establish the role and duties associated with that title, or how his activities had affected the FVFe 
organization as a whole rather than the individual athletes he trained. Finally, we decided that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the FVFe enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Within the Petitioner's motions, he disagrees with our assessment of his role for FVFe and claims that 
his role was critical because his achievements brought pride to the organization and to his home country, 
and that having champions on your team is "crucial" for any given field. While the Petitioner disagrees 
with our conclusion, he does not cite to any law or precedent decision that establishes that our decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, as required by the regulation governing motions 
to reconsider. 
Rather, on motion the Petitioner broadly asserts that we did not consider the entire record, held his case 
to a higher than required burden of proof, and that we manipulated and misrepresented the evidence. 
Notably, the Petitioner did not offer specific examples of any of these infractions. Upon review of the 
record in its totality, we find the Petitioner has failed to establish his eligibility under this criterion. 
First, as it relates to the Petitioner's role for organization's or establishments, he claimed the roles he 
performed for FVFe as an athlete and an instructor. Regarding his time as an athlete, he described his 
first-place finishes inc=]competitions resulting in him serving as the Venezuelan champion. We note 
that the record contains three certificates for his performances as I I but he 
did not provide evidence that he was the Venezuelan champion. 
~----~Is letter only described the Petitioner's competitive finishes and did not address how he may 
have led the organization or how he contributed to it in a critical manner. While we recognize the 
Petitioner's top-placed finishes in some competitions, he has not established those were of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization's activities. We note that users policy provides that 
letters from those with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can 
be particularly helpful to users officers in making a determination under this requirement, provided the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the alien's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. 9 As we noted, I Is letter did not contain 
such detailed and probative information. 
9 Policy Memo at 10. 
5 
As it relates to his performance as an instructor, the Petitioner only provided a translated document 
indicating he fulfilled all the FVFC requirements to obtain an instructor's certificate. We note the letter 
froml I described the foreign national's participation in bodybuilding events, but he did not 
describe any leading or critical role the Petitioner may have performed for the organization as in 
instructor. Although.__ ____ _. was one of four signatories on the certificate identifying the 
Petitioner as an instructor for FVFC, the alien has not established how he may have impacted this 
organization as an instructor. Evidence under this criterion must provide specifics relating to how the 
Petitioner's role was critical to the organization as a whole, and the foreign national has not satisfied 
that burden here.10 
~to the role the Petitioner performed for IFBB, we do not consider the letter from I I 
L___J the IFBBI l to aid the Petitioner under this criterion. I ts letter merely 
conveyed that the Petitioner was included on a list of other athletes who were receiving a new IFBB 
Elite Card. The Petitioner has not described howl ~ letter contains any information 
establishing that the foreign national's role in the IFBB was leading or critical as required by the 
regulation. None of the material within the record establishes what impact the Petitioner's performance 
in any role had on the named organizations. The letters did not identify how the Petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or their activities. As such, 
the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner held a leading or critical role for either the FVFC or 
IFBB. 
The Petitioner further contends in his motion that the record contained evidence related to the 
distinguished reputation of the two organizations. The Petitioner specifically refers to the letters from I landl I in his motion, but he failed to explain how either author established 
that the FVFC or the IFBB enjoy a distinguished reputation. As we noted above, these letters do not 
contain information relating to this criterion's requirements. Additionally, the Petitioner did not offer 
additional evidence from outside these organizations that might demonstrate they enjoy a 
distinguished reputation, "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence."11 As a result, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of the named organizations have a distinguished reputation. 
Considering the Petitioner's claims and supporting evidence, he has not demonstrated that our adverse 
decision under this criterion was incorrect, nor does the record support a determination in his favor. 
C. Claimed Summary Errors 
As a closing note within his motion, the Petitioner offers a general statement that we did not: adequately 
address the bases in the petition's denial; present any relevant statutory, regulatory, or case law to support 
our decision; and support our findings with substantial evidence. We note that our decision on the appeal 
addressed each of the bases within the Petitioner's appeal brief: and we have revisited those topics in this 
decision. Furthermore, as our appellate decision cited to the relative statute, regulation, and USCIS 
policy, we do not agree that the appellate conclusion was not legally supported. Finally, it is unclear what 
the Petitioner means by indicating our decision was not supported by substantial evidence, as he cites to 
10 See Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 3L 2019); see 
also Noroozi, 905 F.Supp.2d at 545. 
11 Policy Memo at 10-11. 
6 
no statute, regulation, or precedent decision to support his statement. However, we note that in visa 
proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden of proof Section 291 of the Act; 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Petitioner has only satisfied one criterion when he must meet at least three, he has not 
demonstrated that meeting the awards criterion alone would alter our decision to dismiss his appeal. 
Therefore, he has not shown that we should either reopen the proceedings or reconsider our decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10832549 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement by submitting evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary standards listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a director and producer of._l ~· ---~~0.,....I films whose work has been screened at, 
and awarded by, several international film festivals. He states that he intends to continue to produce 
and direct films in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him and his participation as a 
judge of the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to an additional four criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that in 
addition to the criteria that the Director determined that the Petitioner met, he also meets the criterion 
related to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. While he therefore meets the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification, the evidence does not establish that he qualifies as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As stated in the plain language of the regulation, this criterion requires that material be about a 
petitioner, concern his or her work in the field of expertise, and be published in one of the qualifying 
types of media. In addition, the evidence must include sufficient identifying information to allow 
USCIS to verify its source, and foreign language material must be accompanied by a translation 
meeting the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3), including that it be a "foll English-language 
translation." 
2 
Although we note that much of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion either does not 
include the required title, date and author of the material, or is accompanied by only a partial English 
translation, there is also qualifying evidence in the record. Examples include interviews of the 
Petitioner about his work which appeared in the Slovenian newspaper Delo, the Swiss newspaper La 
Tribune de Genveve, and the Spanish magazine El Cultural. As such, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has served on the juries of several film festivals, 
primarily in I I from 1999 through 2009. We note that in some cases he sat on the jury for a 
particular prize, while in others he participated in the awarding of all of the prizes awarded at the 
festival. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director found that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not meet its 
requirements for two reasons: first, the Petitioner's work did not fall into the "visual arts" such as 
painting, sculpting and photography; and second, that the Petitioner's work was not "regularly ... 
displayed at exclusive national or international venues." However, as the Petitioner states on appeal, 
neither of these requirements appear in the plain language of the criterion. USCIS may not utilize 
novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 758 (9th Cir.2008). 
The evidence in the record shows that films directed by the Petitioner were displayed at several film 
festivals in 1992-93, from 1997 to 2000, and again from 2006 to 2010. The purpose of these festivals 
was either primarily or entirely to display films as artistic works. Therefore, we withdraw this portion 
of the Director's decision and find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
As we noted above, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four evidentiary criteria in addition to the two 
that the Director found he met. Because we agree with the Director's finding regarding those two 
criteria, but withdraw his decision regarding a third criterion and find that he meets that as well, the 
Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. We will therefore 
not consider his claims to the additional three criteria, but will instead review the totality of the 
evidence in the record in the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
3 
The Petitioner indicates that his career in filmmaking began in the late 1970s, serving as an assistant 
director in several movies before his first film as a director was released inc=J The evidence shows 
that that film, I I premiered at the I I Film Festival, and went on to be screened at 
several film festivals that year. This included thel • I International Film Festival I I 
where it received both the Grand Prix -Crystal Globe award for best film, and also the FIPRESCI 
Prize from the.__ ________ _.of Film Critics both with the Petitioner named as the only 
recipient. 1 Although the evidence indicates that~ is today considered an important European 
film festival and had a long history even before ~lso indicates that it's prestige had waned in 
the years after the split of the former Czechoslovakia into smaller countries. Specifically, while the 
festival itself: and the Petitioner's receipt of the top prize, received coverage from international media, 
several of those articles noted tha~ I had suffered from a lack of fonding and organization. An 
article in the International Herald Tribune notes that while it "was once the showcase for East 
European filmmaking," thel I edition was its "first attempt at real international scope," 
and thlat man] Eastern European filmmakers had chosen to "compete at more prestigious events" such 
as the Film Festival. In addition, an article in the Los Angeles Times quotes the president of 
the festival stating that "As a result of the well-known situation in the past, the festival has lost a lot 
of its reputation." While the extent of the media coverage of the I I and the Petitioner's 
receipt of the top prize, is noted, the content of that coverage reflects a lesser level of international 
recognition and prestige for the festival and award than a simple listing of those articles might suggest. 
Re,arding the FIPRESCI Prize, the Petitioner submitted the regulations governing this award from 
the IFilm Critics website. These indicate that the organization decides to 
which international film festivals and other festivals "of particular importance" it will send juries, and 
whether the jury may issue prizes for different film types (feature, short, documentary~ The 
evidence shows tha~._ ____ __.lwas the only film awarded at the~edition of the L__J but 
that a total of 30 FIPRESCI Prizes were awarded at several festivals that year. The Petitioner also 
submitted several more recent articles reporting on winners of this award, with a 2009 article in The 
Guardian stating that "In principle, this should be the most prestigious and sought-after prize of all," 
but going on to note that it does not carry a monetary award and has not led to commercial success for 
the awarded films. 
The evidence shows thatl land the Petitioner also received awards at other film festivals, 
but the evidence does not establish that these were recognized as top venues or were even at the level 
of thd I in terms ofrecognition in the field. For example, several articles published in Spanish 
and Argentinean newspapers report on the Petitioner's receipt of the Best Film and Best Director 
awards at the I Spanish Cinema festival in I I Uruguay. However, as 
noted above when discussing published material about the Petitioner, those articles are accompanied 
by only partial English translations, and thus do not comply with the regulations. While we 
acknowledge that the translated portions of these articles sufficiently verify the Petitioner's receipt of 
this award, the lack of a complete translation detracts from the weight of this evidence in establishing 
the award's recognition and thus the extent of the acclaim afforded to the Petitioner. 
1 The Director suggested in his decision that because several of the awards were given for movies that the Petitioner 
directed, he could not be considered to be the recipient. However, the materials show that in all cases where a movie was 
awarded, the Petitioner was specifically and exclusively named as the director of the movie. Therefore, we will consider 
those awards to have been received by him. 
4 
Similarly, several articles from Italian news a ers are accompanied by partial English translations 
which are sufficient to confirm thatL-_---r __ ........,as awarded the Stefano Reggiani award for best 
film at thQ International Film Week in.__ _ ___. But the translations do not include most of the 
main body of these articles, and thus do not provide sufficient context to determine the level or extent 
of recognition that the Petitioner received by winning this award. 
Beyond the awards given to this film, the Petitioner also submitted media articles which discuss or 
interview him based upon the success of his initial movie at film festivals, as well as its topical content 
coming after the creation of several new Eastern European nations. These include an article in Screen 
International which calls I I "One of the surprise hits at thel I Film Festival," and the 
article in Delo which indicates that the Petitioner "was popular and sought-after" by many Eastern 
European journalists since they.__ ___________________ ____.' Based upon 
the evidence of awards and media attention given to him after the release of his initial film, the 
Petitioner appears to have enjoyed a certain level of international recognition at this stage of his career. 
The next film that the Petitioner directed, was released 
approximately.__ _______ ___. The evidence shows that it was screened at thel I 
International Film Festival that year, as well as atl lthe next year and less prestigious festivals, 
but did not receive any awards. The Petitioner submitted evidence of a review of the film in Variety 
and an interview of him about the film in La Tribune de Geneve as well as El Pais, a major Spanish 
newspaper, but the totality of the evidence regarding this film does not show that the Petitioner 
received national or international recognition as its director. 
Inn the Petitioner released his fi~lm~=====,-----..------.::,---------r------' c:==::J at thel !edition of the I !Film Festival, where it was awarded for best 
film, best director and best actress. The record includes three articles from Spanish newspapers that 
report on the film's success at the festival, but as previously noted with other foreign-language articles, 
these are only partially translated and thus do not provide a complete picture of how the award, the 
film and the Petitioner were presented. We note that a brief article also appeared in Variety, which 
stated that the festival received increased media attention that year and "looks set to establish itself as 
I • Is main platform for exclusively local product." In addition, the evidence includes two properly 
translated articles from Bolivian newspapers about the film's recei t of the award for 
best film at the I IFilm Festival i ,__ _______ ____.Bolivia. Further, the 
Petitioner was interviewed in an article published in Clarin, a major Argentinean newspaper, about 
the film and its production. The evidence thus indicates that the awards received by the Petitioner at 
one up-and-coming film festival, and another less well-known, brought a certain level of national 
acclaim inl lwhere it was filmed, and in his native! I 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner did not direct another film until D whe.""naL.I ____ _ 
was shown at several film festivals, including the I 
._I-nt_e_rn_a_t-io_n_a_l_F_i_lm_F_e_s-ti-v-al----- the International Film Festival;::.! .:.::.::i;2.......::.:.:,:.,l·-a-n_d_t_h_er=I =====. 
I I Film Festival in.__ ___ __, where it received the First Prize for best film. However, we 
note that the evidence regarding recognition of this award is limited to pages from unrelated websites 
or the festival's own materials. The film was reviewed in another major Argentinean newspaper, La 
5 
Nacion, but only a partial translation of this review was provided, and the evidence does not indicate 
that it received significant media attention beyond this article. 
His next film appeared in c=J, with .__ ________ __,premiering at the I 
International Film Festival. It was also screened at film festivals focusing onl.----'----
0-,-l,-a_n_d_a_.t 
several locations of the I I Institute, an institution created by the I I government to 
promote I 1 I culture. The Petitioner provides evidence that he received the "Best Documentary" 
award at the I I Film Festival, which is also represented in the evidence as the International 
Festival ofl !cinema. However, other than a brief mention in a Variety article and 
another posted on what appears to be a blog, the Petitioner did not submit evidence that he received 
widespread acclaim resulting from this movie or the award it received. Although he submitted recent 
articles about the increasing popularity ofthel I Film Festival, the record does not show that the 
festival, or the prizes it granted inc=] received significant professional or public media attention at 
the time or was otherwise deemed noteworthy. 
The Petitioner's final film to date was which wa~ at 
several film festivals focusing on Latin American films, including those i .__ __ _,andl___J as 
well as broader festivals in Argentina and Spain. Like his previous film, it was also featured in 
screenings at several locations of thel I Institute. An article in Variety provides a favorable 
review, as does another article in what appears to be a local or regional Spanish newspaper. However, 
the record does not include evidence that this film received an award or the level of coverage in the 
general and industry media that the Petitioner's first three films received. 
In addition to his work as a director the evidence demonstrates t._._.~~_,.,titioner has also worked as 
a producer, and is a co-founder of Productions based i produced three 
of the films directed b the Petitioner , as well 
,.::;ac::.s....:t.::;;;h..::..e....::f;;;;.;;11;;;;,;;m;;;;.;;s:..i...._,-- _______________ __. in 2004 and.__ ___ _. the same year. 
in which the Petitioner is credited as a co-producer, won several awards at film 
~fe_s_t-iv_a_l-s,_a_s_w-el__,l as a Silver Ariel fo~ IFilm inD However, the Petitioner has 
not shown how the level of critical success of these films, for which the director is credited, has added 
to his acclaim as a filmmaker. He highlights an article which appeared in Variety in 2006 which 
discusses a project on which he and his production company were said to be collaborating with a 
Colombian director, and asserts that this attention from the well-known industry publication shows 
the recognition that both had achieved in the industry. However, we note that the article does not 
focus on the Petitioner's work as a producer, but instead briefly mentions his awards received as a 
"helmer" or director. In addition, although other articles in the record about films produced by I I list or mention the production company, none of them focus on the company or on the 
Petitioner for his work as a producer. We therefore conclude that this evidence does not show that 
this aspect of the Petitioner's career as a filmmaker have noticeably contributed to his acclaim in the 
field. 
Another aspect of his work which reflects on the nature of his acclaim as a filmmaker is the Petitioner's 
service as a judge for film festivals. The evidence shows that he served in this capacity for several 
festivals, primarily in Spain, from 1999 to 2009, including as president of the jury for the I I 
International Film Festival, which focuses on the work of young filmmakers, and twice at thec::==J., 
[ l Film Festival, in 2000 and 2008. His first participation in a film festival jury was at thel__J 
l~. --~I Film Festival inl I Spain in 1999. In several cases he served on the jury for a particular 
6 
"section" or type of film, such as at the 20071 I Film Festival where he judged only short films. 
This evidence shows that during this period, the Petitioner had achieved a level of national acclaim 
and was thus regularly called upon to utilize his expertise as a filmmaker to judge the work of other 
filmmakers. 
A review of the evidence discussed above shows that the Petitioner rrnered acclaim at the 
international level with his first film as a director in D with I receiving awards at film 
festivals and significant media attention. His next two films, released five and seven years later, 
continued to be screened at international film festivals, but the evidence shows that they did not receive 
the same level of recognition a~ I withl 6 I receiving attention mainly in 
the Petitioner's country of residence at the time,I I While he remained active in his field as a 
producer and in judging film festival competitions, the Petitioner next directed a film in 2006, seven 
years after the release of That filmJ lwas also screened at 
international film festivals such as those inl I and! I but the evidence does not 
show that the award it received at thel I Film Festival was well-reco~And 
the last two films that he directed were screened at lesser known festivals focused on L__J and I I films, as well at several locations of the I ~ Institute, but the evidence does not 
demonstrate that they received the same level of critical acclaim as his earlier movies. 
Since directing his last film in 2010, the evidence shows that the Petitioner has made some speaking 
appearances, and has also participated in educational programs for young filmmakers. For instance, 
on two occasions in 2015, he spoke at events organized b the I , I an organization 
created by thel I government to strengthen ties with While one of these talks 
was at a conference titled .__ _____________ ____.' and thus appeared to be related to 
the field of filmmaking, the other was a poetry reading to memorialize a recently deceased poet, where 
the Petitioner was one of many participants reading poetry. 
Regarding educational and mentoring activities, the Petitioner took part in I J" an international 
symposium onl I film and literature organized b two universities in the United States. The 
evidence shows that he was one of six filmmakers frou-'l.r----...,__ _ _J andC]who were invited to 
participate with the conference in conjunction with the International Film Festival in 2011. 
He had also previously spoken about his films at he 
participated as one of several advisors in a course entitled I ~ organized by th~ !Program in 20._1_3 __ -A-1-th_o_u_g_h_t_h_e-se-ac-t-iv-i-ti-es-sh_o_w-th_a_t_i__.n 
the years following the release of his last film, his expertise as a filmmaker remained sought after to 
some degree, the evidence relating 
In addition to these activities, the Petitioner also remained active in his field through his membership 
in professional organizations. The Petitioner submitted evidence that as of June 2012 he was one of 
three members of a specialty commission of the.........,. ________ .,.... and claims that he was a 
member of the Board of Directors of this organization from 2012 to 2016. However, this same 
evidence states that "the first of each section being the new member of the Board of Directors," while 
the Petitioner is listed as the third member. In addition, other information from the I I I Is website indicates that two members from each specialty commission, out of a total of six 
members, are a member of the Board of Directors. Although the evidence confirms that the Petitioner 
was a member of the specialty commission for direction for a two-year period, it does not confirm that 
7 
he was a member of the Board of Directors as claimed. In addition, while the record includes articles 
from film industry media discussing leadership changes in the I l the Petitioner 
is not mentioned in any of them, nor does the record include other evidence of his activities while a 
member of the specialty commission. This evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner remained a 
respected member of his profession at the national level in the years after he directed his last film, 
since members of the specialty commissions are voted on by the academy's general assembly, but 
does not indicate that he had sustained the level of acclaim earned earlier in his career up to the time 
of filing this petition. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he was a member of the standing committee of the board 
of Directors of~-------------------~ an organization which manages 
the interests of the authors of audiovisual material in their secondary rights to their creations. The 
evidence indicates that this organization collects and distributes global copyright royalties, and 
advocates for the fortification of copyright protection. As with the Petitioner's claim about his 
membership in the I l the evidence indicates only that he was a member of the 
Board of Directors at some point, but does not support his claim of membership from 2005 to 2013. 
In addition, although this evidence shows that he worked on behalf of others in his profession to protect 
film copyrights and royalties, it does not does not demonstrate that he maintained national or 
international acclaim as a filmmaker through this work. 
In summary, although the record shows that the Petitioner remained active in his field through 
advocacy and teaching and mentoring activities in the years since he last directed a film, it does not 
indicate that he has actively worked as a director or a producer in the nine years preceding the filing 
of this petition, or that he has participated as a jury member at film festivals. This decrease in his 
activity is also reflected in the evidence of media coverage of the Petitioner and his work. As discussed 
above, he and his films were the subject of mry aTcles in a variety of media, including major 
newspapers in his native! I as well as in where he resided, during the period in which 
he was actively directing films and his work was regularly screened at film festivals. However, the 
record does not show that this level of media coverage of his career continued once his activity as a 
director ceased~re recent articles in the record concern screenings of his film at several 
locations of thel____J Institute, and consist of a posting on that location's website, as opposed to 
the previous coverage of his work in major and professional media. The Petitioner has therefore not 
established that the acclaim he gained as a director through his early films has been sustained to the 
present. 
In addition, while the Petitioner's films received a level of international acclaim in the 1990s, winning 
prizes at film festivals and receiving press coverage at the international level, the evidence does not 
show that this acclaim reflected standing as one of the small percentage of filmmakers at the top of 
the field. He has not established that the awards he received were considered to be among the most 
prestigious prizes in his field, or that the level of critical acclaim he received as a filmmaker otherwise 
marked him as a top filmmaker. More importantly, the Petitioner's work was most recently awarded 
approximately nine years prior to the filing of this petition, and the record does not demonstrate that 
he was among the small percentage of filmmakers at the top of his field at that time. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who is at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12210842 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a manager of creative services/senior graphic designer, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required, he did not 
show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was employed as a manager of creative services tori I ~---~I as of the date of filing and that he previously served in a senior graphic designer role 
for this employer. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he meets the following four 
criteria: 1 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation; and 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that he satisfied the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), but on 
appeal, he does contest the Director's determination that he did not meet this criterion. In addition, the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE) and denial addressed the criteria relating to awards and commercial success in the performing arts, 
although the Petitioner did not claim that he meets these two criteria. The Petitioner does not address these criteria on 
appeal. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 
767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims 
to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets the criteria relating to judging, display at artistic exhibitions, 
and leading or critical roles. The Petitioner's participation on a jury panel atl Is 2018 and 2019 I I Connections trade shows demonstrates that he has participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or allied field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3){iv). The record also reflects that the 
Petitioner has displayed his artwork at three art exhibitions inl I thus meeting the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Finally, the Petitioner demonstrated that he serves in a critical role withe=] I I and established the distinguished reputation of that organization. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he has 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the Director's 
decision did not explain why the submitted evidence was insufficient to establish that he satisfied the 
high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). He also asserts that the Director's failure to grant 
this fourth criterion prejudiced his case. 
We will consider the evidence submitted in support of the high salary criterion, together with the 
balance of the record, to determine whether the Petitoner possesses the level of sustained acclaim and 
standing in his field to establish his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established his 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner's supporting letter describes him as "one of the industr 's most successful raphic 
designers and art directors." The record confirms his employment with since 
2016, where he currently serves as Manager, Creative Services assigned to the.__ ______ _. 
brand. A letter from a former director of design tori I confirms that he provided 
services td las a contracted graphic designer in in "2014/15." Earlier in his career, beginning in 
2006 or 2007, 3 the Petitioner worked as a contracted graphic designer tori J I 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise for the immi rant classification . 
3 A letter from formed !Manager forL----r-----1---....l inl I indicates 
that the Petitioner worked for._______. from 2006 until 2012. A letter from ~---~Company payroll department 
indicates that he was on the company payroll from July 2007 until November 2011, while the introductory letter submitted 
in support of the petition indicates that the Petitioner lettl , In 2010 "to pursue other creative endeavors." 
3 
inl I and later as a senior graphic/product designer for th~ I irl~--~ 
The supporting letter mentions that he has also provided services as a desi ner for other co1p~n-ies I 
i n c I u di n g I I I I L....,..,.----,-_____,,,........r--,.J and I I Other evidence indicates that the Petitioner studied art in _____ ____,and began his 
design career in the advertising industry in the late 1990s. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner established that he has judged the work of others within his field, 
displayed his work at artistic exhibitions, and performed in a critical role tori I The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, it is appropriate to evaluate the 
significance of his experience to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary ability 
for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The Petitioner 
submitted evidence that he served on the 68-member juries at the 2018 and 2019 I I 
Connections trade show, an annual event organized by I I and described as "the only custom 
made trade show for the creative community." The evidence establishes that the Connections trade 
shows include an award component in which the jury selects winners in the areas of creative content, 
video and print advertising and other creative specialties. The record reflects thatl I is a global 
network and resource that offers exposure to companies and individual members of the creative 
community. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director's final merits determination failed to consider the prestige of 
thisl levent or the stature of his fellow jurors. Specifically, he notes that his fellow jurors were 
creative professionals from companies such as Vans, Nike, Sony Pictures, Apple, Google and NBC 
Universal, demonstrating that the jury was comprised of "a veritable who's who of top creative talent." 
We note that all of the supporting evidence regarding the 1 !Connections shows was sourced 
from the event's own website. The evidence does not establish, for example, that the awards bestowed 
by juries at these shows are major awards in the creative industry or that the Connections show receives 
media coverage in professional or trade publications or major media. The record supports the 
Petitioner's claim that most of the jurors hold creative positions with well-known companies, but the 
evidence does not describel ~s jury selection process or otherwise corroborate the Petitioner's 
assertion that only those in the small percentage at the very top of the creative field are invited to 
participate as jurors. We acknowledge that each juror was recognized with an individual profile and 
short interview published on the event's website but it is unclear how this recognition by the organizers 
resulted in or is reflective of the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim as a graphic 
artist or art director. The record does not demonstrate that he garnered wide attention from the field 
based on his work as a juror at these annual events. 
We also note that the Petitioner's only documented judging experience, in 2018 and 2019, is quite 
recent and therefore does not clearly support a determination that he has documented a "career of 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress or indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. The 
Petitioner indicates that he has "several years" of jury experience at this event but has not documented 
any participation as a juror at this or any other event prior to 2018. Without evidence that sets him 
apart from others in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions and showcases, the Petitioner provided 
evidence that he displayed his artwork at (1) the 2014 of the Art Show" an exhibit at 
Stan Lee's I I Ex o; 2 a 2016 exhibit titled ' held at the 
Exhibit A Gallery in ; and (3) a 2017 exhibit titled 
L..,--,------;---,-------,,....,..,...,.~---,----,-,------' hosted by Creature Features in ............ ~~-In addition to these 
exhibitions, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under the display criterion based on his creative 
contributions toOs promotional materials forl land I I game displays at the [ I video game expo,L ~omic-Con International, and I I l !events, described as "some of the biggest events in the videogame industry." 
In addressing this criterion in the final merits determination, the Director observed that "participation 
in exhibits is expected of artists," and determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated how his 
own participation demonstrates his sustained acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director 
failed to consider the nature and importance of the exhibitions in which he participated and failed to 
explain why the evidence was deficient to s~rt his extraordinary ability claim. The Petitioner 
solely emphasizes the work h~ perfored forL._J's releases of I J and I I which 
was displayed atl I, Comic-Con, and0gaming conventions. However, while he 
established that he worked on promotional materials, the evidence does not establish that these 
video game industry events qualify as "artistic exhibitions or showcases" intended to display the work 
of individual graphic or visual artists. 
With respect to the "Mistress of the Art Show," the Petitioner submitted a letter from .... l __ ____. 
..,..._ ___ ..........__re_s_id_e_nt_o~f I I who describes this art show as a main feature of the 
L..._ _____ __,.... _ _.__ex_h_i_b_it,,_a--,nd as "one of the most popular" shows "within the world of comic 
books and horror."~----~ who states that her company holds licensing rights for horror film 
iconl I indicates that she selects no more than 25 artists out of hundreds of submissions for this 
art show. She identifies "notable artists" who have participated in these exhibitions, and states that 
she selected the Petitioner because he has consistently provided exceptional artwork for her company. 
The Petitioner also submitted promotional materials for the exhibition and background informp-1i.o.n, 
regarding thel I indicating that it is the largest pop culture convention held inl_J 
I I 
However, the submitted media coverage about the~--------~ exhibition does not 
highlight the "Mistress of the Art Show" or the artists participating in the show. Nor isD I l's letter alone sufficient to establish that only acclaimed artists were selected to participate 
in this exhibition. In addition, although the record documents the Petitioner's participation in the 
above-referenced I I tribute and ~------~ exhibits, it does not include 
supporting evidence demonstrating his involvement in either show resulted in or is indicative of his 
5 
significant reco nition in the field. Overall, the Petitioner has not established that his participation in 
the three.___ __ ~ _ ____.exhibitions mentioned, between 2014 and 2017, places him among the 
small percentage at t every top of his field or contributed to his sustained national acclaim in the field. 
With respect to the Petitione
1·s empioym
1ent, tie appeal brief emphasizes that he has worked with 
prestigious companies such as and which "surely have their choice when hiring graphic 
designers," and notes that these companies have entrusted him with progressively more senior roles 
within their design departments. The Petitioner further states that the Director failed to explain how a 
graphic designer "working in a critical and leading role for a respected multinational company with 
an instantly recognizable name -an individual with overall responsibility for a brand that is an 
international blockbuster -has somehow not risen to the top of his field." 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has worked for,___ ____ ____.since December 2016. While 
the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner established his critical role with the company, the record 
does not support his claim that he has "overall res onsibility" for thel I brand. The Petitioner 
initially submitted a letter from Director of Creative Services fo~ I along 
with evidence indicating that.___ __ ___. is recognized as bein~ the original design team for 
and has been featured and interviewed onL__J fan websites. I I .___ _____ ____. 
explained that the Petitioner was hired to "manage the workflow for the US team including all creative 
for licensing, marketing and packaging." He emphasized the Petitioner's "carefully honed expertise, 
and his broad knowledge of fashion, licensing and marketing" and noted that he was instrumental in 
the marketin cam aigns for the major release of I I and I I both award-winning 
games. further described the Petitioner as "overtly influential in the continued success 
of '----~ 
The record also contains a more recent letter froml I a Senior Vice President of I.______. I land Chief Brand Officer o~ I. I !describes the Petitioner's 
responsibilities as "senior graphic designer/manager of creative services of.___ ______ _. 
noting that he delegates responsibilities to internal designers, selects external creative agencies, works 
with them to develop the brand's trend st le uides, and reviews and validates creative assets. He 
states that "the entire operation of the Head Office relies upon his experience, expertise, 
leadership and critical role." FinallY,~----~mphasizes the success o~ I notes 
the game's many accolades and industry awards, and attributes this success, in part, to the Petitioner's 
"leadership and guidance." 
Whilel I confirms that the Petitioner contributed to the successful promotional launch of 
two major video game titles, it is unclear how his contributions resulted in national or international 
acclaim to the Petitioner personally. The record contains a1ple ev
1dence that the games were well-
received and received awards, but this represents acclaim to and the already successful I I 
brand, not to the Beneficiary in his personal capacity as a graphic desi ner workinq on creative aspects 
of licensing, marketing and packaging. Submitted credits for th and[ I games 
indicate the Petitioner's involvement as a member of~----~ 's creative services team, but 
these credits list many other branding, marketing, licensing and creative services employees working 
for various companies, many of them senior to the Petitioner. In fact, both I ~ and 
.___ ___ _, hold senior positions within the I I brand team, which raises questions regarding 
6 
statements that the Petitioner, as a senior graphic designer, is the person primarily responsible for all 
creative aspects of the brand. 
The Petitioner suggests that the very fact tha~ I hired him to work on its flagship brand indicates 
that he is at the top of his field, but we cannot reach this conclusion based solely on the statements 
provided byl I representatives. We acknowledge that the company clearly value his creative 
talents and consider him a key contributor to creative services for the brand. However, absent evidence 
that sustained national or international acclaim is a condition of being considered for employment for 
a graphic design position withl I or that his role has resulted in such acclaim, he cannot establish 
extraordinary ability based solely r his losition with the company. The evidence demonstrates that 
the Beneficiary's contributions for have been noticed within the company, but the record does 
not establish that his achievements have been recognized more broadly in the field of expertise at the 
level required to support an extraordinary ability claim. As noted, it appears that his participation as 
a juror for the 1 I Connections shows in 2018 and 2019 likely stemmed from his key creative 
role with a prominent company likel I but this evidence alone does not establish his sustained 
national acclaim as a graphic designer. 
The Petitioner has also submitted letters regarding his role as a senior graphic and product designer 
tori I .___ ____ ....,.former European Design Manager otl lread Office in I I indicates that the Petitioner was part of the creative team that designs I 
merchanrlise sold across Europe, including products such as apparel and home accessories. He notes 
that the[ I organization "is in a position to set extremely high hiring standards for 
Desi ners" and attracts the "best and brightest." With respect to the Petitioner's contribu~ 
notes that his ro · ects included major I ltranch ises such as I I L____J 
and.__ ________ ___. and explains that he won an international intracompany design 
competition that resulted in the release of a limited edition t-shirt featuring his design and signature. 
He also highlights the success of a Christmas tree ornament set designed by the Petitioner that quickly 
earned collectable status. 
While the evidence establishes that Petitioner was a member of a critical design team that developed 
I !products sold throughout Europe and had some notable successes, the record does not 
establish that the widespread distribution of the products or artwork he designed resulted in individual 
recognition for the Petitioner that would constitute national or international acclaim in his field. While 
we do not doubt that I I has high standards when selecting grapTc desirers for their creative 
teams, the evidence does not support a conclusion that being hired by alone is evidence that 
he is recognized as being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's success in his industry, but the record has not shown that he has received national or 
international acclaim for his work on these projects. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by determining that he did not provide evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others. Offer and promotion letters froml I I I indicate that he was hired at an annual base salary of $82,500, that his base salary in the 2019 
fiscal year was $85,660, and that his 2020 fiscal year pay rate would be $90,800. He was notified of 
7 
a promotion to the position of Manager, Creative Services on May 1, 2019.5 His initial offer letter 
indicates his eligibility to participate in an Employee Bonus Program. The Petitioner also submitted 
copies of his IRS Form W-2s indicating that he earned "wages, tips and other compensation" of 
$80,954 in 2017, $149,117.48 in 2018, and $114,428.92 in 2019. Based on the letters discussed above, 
his reported income in 2018 and 2019 reflected substantial bonuses. 
The Petitioner submitted a 2019 graphic designer occupational profile from the Department of Labor's 
CareerOneStop website which shows salary data for the I I area where he 
works. This evidence shows a median wage of $55,300, a 75th percentile wage of $73,240, and a 90th 
percentile wage of $94,310. The Petitioner also compares his total compensation figures to the U.S. 
Department of Labor data for both Graphic Designers in tha larea at the Level 4, or fully 
competent, wage, stating that his compensation significantly exceeds those wages. We note that the 
Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) data obtained from the FLCDatacenter.com website, from 
which the Petitioner obtained this data, does not include bonuses or benefits. 6 Therefore, the 
Petitioner's base salary is the appropriate basis for comparison to the Department of Labor data he 
provided. 
According to the Department of Labor database for the period beginning July 2019, the Level 4 Wage 
for a graphic designer is $71,178. The evidence indicates that the Petitioner's base salary is higher 
than the average wage for a graphic designer with his education and experience, and even above the 
75th percentile wage. However, it does not establish how his salary places him among the small 
percentage of graphic designers at the very top of the field. Although the Petitioner's total 
remuneration was significantly higher than his base salary in 2018 and 2019, he has not provided 
evidence that would allow us to compare his total remuneration to that of others in his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his ongoing work 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has performed design work for high-profile brands and has been entrusted with 
increasing responsibility, particularly in his latest role withl I However, the record does not 
indicate that he has already achieved a degree of recognition consistent with the sustained acclaim that 
the statute demands. We find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or 
5 The Petitioner listed his occupation as "Art Director/Graphic Designer" on the Form 1-140. The Petitioner explained that 
he anticipated at the time of filing that his job title following promotion would be "Art Director." However, the promotion 
letter identifying his new position as "Manager, Creative Services" pre-dated the filing of the petition by three months. 
6 See the OES FAQ page at https://www.bls.gov/oes/oes_ques.htm (last visited Nov. 25, 2020). 
8 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Despite any number of previously approved petitions, USCIS does not have the authority to confer an 
immigration benefit when a petitioner fails to meet their burden of proof in a subsequent petition. See 
Section 291 of the Act. Moreover, an adjudicator's fact-finding authority is not constrained by any 
prior petition approval, but instead, is based on the merits of each case. In this case, for the reasons 
discussed, the evidence did not meet the Petitioner's burden of proof for this highly-restrictive 
immigrant classification. 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic 
Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2023 In Re: 27856361 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 
464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We incorporate our prior 
decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the 
Petitioner's claims on motion. 1 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including judging the work of others in her 
field at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
We also addressed the Petitioner's claim that she satisfied the criterion relating to leading or critical 
roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and determined that the evidence did not satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner did not claim to meet any other criteria on appeal. 
Because we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements, we did not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advised that after a review of the record in the aggregate, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she has earned sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, as required by section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and 
be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner's 
motion to reopen focuses on our determination that she did not satisfy the leading or critical roles 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Our appellate decision noted the Petitioner's initial submission of a letter froml IDirector of 
En lish for Academic Pu oses and Continuing Education of Non-Native English Speakers atl I 
,_____ ....---_________ __,, who asserted that the Petitioner held a leading and critical role. 
~---~ confirmed the Petitioner commenced employment at I I in 2018 and was promoted in 
June 2021 to the position ofthe Coordinator ofEnglish Language Pathways program, which she describes 
as a "top position within the department." I I further indicated that due to the Petitioner's 
"innovations within the curriculum, choice of courses, and individual outreach to students," enrollment 
into her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year. 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's contention that she plays a leading and critical 
role atl I based on the letter froml land by her achievement of earning the 2022 award of 
excellence in teaching froml I We concluded that althoug~ !confirms the importance of 
the Petitioner's contributions as the coordinator ofEnglishl Language Pathways atl Ishe does not 
establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 1as a whole, such as by showing she 
influenced its overall reputation or status, or was responsible for the success of the organization. We 
determined that whilel lstated that due to the Petitioner's efforts, enrollment in her program 
increased by 30 percent from the prior year, it is not clear from the record that the Petitioner's actions 
1 While we may not individually discuss each piece of evidence the Petitioner submits with her current motion, we have 
reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
I and contributions in fact led to the increase. We noted that increase in enrollment could be caused by 
several different factors, and without more information it is impossible to correlate the increase to the 
Petitioner's actions and not some other factor, such as changes in the pandemic and students returning 
to campuses, or any other possible factors. We further noted that although I lstated that the 
Petitioner's innovations within the curriculum and choice of courses contributed to higher enrollment 
and funding for the program, she did not provide specific examples. 
We found that while the evidence indicated that the Petitioner worked on projects to enhance._!_____. 
program, and thereby supported its mission, she did not provide sufficient documentary evidence to 
show that her duties and responsibilities as a coordinator of the English Language Pathways program 
were critical to the greater organization, as claimed, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited 
tasks or projects. We also determined that the Petitioner did not sufficiently explain or demonstrate 
that her role as a coordinator for one program out of several departments in a college constitutes a 
critical or leading role for the overall organization. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner submits new documentation, including a third letter froml la new 
letter from I I President of I I and exhibits in support I Idistinguished 
reputation. The Petitioner asserts that this evidence establishes that she satisfies the leading or critical 
role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), as it "highlighted my leadership role at the college" and 
"pointed out how important and valuable my contribution is to the institution, the establishment and 
the community." 
The new letter froml Iis nearly identical to a letter provided within the Petitioner's response 
to the Director's request for evidence, with the exception of additional information in "Appendix B" 
and a new "Appendix D." In Appendix D,I !asserts that the Petitioner played a critical role 
for the department's.__ __________ __. program in having redesigned "more than 20 
courses" to gain approval for Continuing Education Equity by Design (CEED) grant funding. She 
asserts that through the Petitioner's efforts "the continuing education BBESL program also increased 
its enrollment" and "this ultimately helped the department and the college ...." I lletter, 
however, does not sufficiently demonstrate or explain how the Petitioner's having obtained approval 
for CEED grant funding for the I I program was of significant importance to the outcome of 
!activities, as claimed. 
In additionJ lletter includes, at "Appendix B," reports ofenrollment numbers for Continuing 
Education for Fall 2022 (updated) and Spring 2023 (new), showing it experienced an increase in 
enrollment for those semesters when compared to the prior year, which she credits to the Petitioner's 
"invaluable and irreplaceable expertise" as coordinator of the English Language Pathways program. 
However, this documentation dates from September 2022 to April 2023, after the filing date of the 
petition in June 2022. Although a motion to reopen allows the submission of new evidence related to 
eligibility, the Petitioner must still establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
2 We further determined that as the Petitioner had not established that she performed in a critical or leading role fore=] 
that further discussion of the college's reputation would serve no meaningful purpose. 
3 
§ 103 .2(b)(1 ). Accordingly, the submitted enrollment reports for Continuing Education for the Fall 
2022 and Spring 2023 semesters do not present new facts that warrant the reopening of this matter. 
Further, the Petitioner submits a letter from the president ot1 Iwho claims that 
the Petitioner's "role as both a director and a highly skilled instructor makes her particularly valuable 
to I t' In addition, he asserts that her "proven leadership is critical td Iwith the high 
levels of non-English speakers and immigrant populations in the community we serve," but he does 
not provide details about the criticality of the Petitioner's role for I I Instead, he discusses 
generally the work of the department, such as instruction for English language learners, English 
language for the workplace, and its partnership with the I I College of Foreign Languages in 
Japan. 
Moreover, although he notes her receipt of the 20221 IExcellence in Teaching Award, he does 
not explain how the award establishes that the Petitioner played a critical role in any success I I 
enjoyed over the course of the academic year. I lletter does not establish that the 
Petitioner's role as coordinator of the English Language Pathways program was "leading" based on 
her title, placement in the organization, or her duties, nor does he provide sufficient information to 
establish that the success of the Petitioner's work in that position was of significant importance to the 
outcome ofl Iactivities to the extent that her role was deemed critical. 
The letters considered ab ve prijarily contain bare assertions of the Petitioner's performance in a 
leading or critical role for 1 without providing specific examples of how her work as a program 
coordinator constitutes a critical or leading role for the overall organization. As stated in our prior 
decision, merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 
905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US Atty 
Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17.3 
For the reasons discussed, the information provided from the new letters from I I~-~Idoes not overcome our previous conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet the regulatory 
criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As the new evidence does not demonstrate eligibility, the motion 
to reopen will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
As discussed, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision misapplied law or USCIS 
policy based on the record at the time ofthe decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner 
contests the correctness of our prior decision with regard to the leading or critical role criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner maintains that we erred in dismissing the appeal, but she 
does not specifically identify or rebut any specific errors in our decision. A motion to reconsider must 
specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision. Cf 
3 As the documentation submitted on motion has not overcome our previous determination that Petitioner has not 
established performance in a critical or leading role forl Iwe need not consider the question of whether the 
organization has a distinguished reputations. 
4 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006).4 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal 
issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision ....") 
Here, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the motion to reconsider generally 
alleging error in the prior decision, she does not contend that we erred as a matter of law or USCIS 
policy in finding, based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, that she did not establish that 
she satisfies the leading and critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As such, the motion 
does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and the motion to reconsider must be 
dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued 
our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F .R. § 1003 .2(b )(1 ), 
which provides: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the 
prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements are fundamentally similar to those 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2024 In Re: 34860055 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a water treatment specialist whose company provides services to resorts and other 
facilities in Turkey. He intends to continue his work in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vi), 
which, respectively, relate to published material about the Petitioner and his authorship of scholarly 
articles. The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (v), (viii), or (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the claimed 
criteria. We will not disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner met the requirements of 
the criteria at (iii) and (vi), and we conclude that the Petitioner has also met the criteria at (v). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted detailed letters from experts in his field and from former colleagues and 
clients discussing his work in Turkey, which includes the introduction ofthe country's first membrane 
bioreactor (MBR) wastewater treatment system. The letters describe technical challenges and 
solutions that the Petitioner applied to development ofthe system, which resulted in the municipality's 
ability to utilize previously unusable water for various private and public types of uses, including for 
drinking water, irrigation, and emergency services. The letters further explain how the Petitioner 
developed a solution for membrane tears in the system that remains in use nationwide for additional 
MBR systems that were developed following the Petitioner's oversight ofthe initial MBR installation. 
Expert opinion letters indicate that the Petitioner's introduction of the MBR treatment system was a 
notable improvement to previous wastewater treatment systems used in Turkey and the impact of his 
work can be measured beyond his companies and clients. 
The letters also describe how the Petitioner's development of a pool operator training program local 
to one of Turkey's tourist regions led to the country's health and education ministries enaction of a 
required certification program based on the framework and content ofthe original. The record includes 
documentation showing that the Petitioner's company is credited with the initial iteration of the 
program, and the letters of support highlight the Petitioner's leading role in developing the program. 
2 
Obtaining this certification is now a legal requirement for the operation ofpools in Turkey to maintain 
certain standards of pool water treatment-a requirement which contributes significantly to human 
health and safety in the country. We conclude that the Petitioner has established by a preponderance 
of the evidence that he made a contribution of major significance within the field of water treatment. 
Thus, the Petitioner has met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(v), and (vi). We therefore need not consider whether he met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (viii), or (ix). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 28, 2023 InRe: 28819177 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who runs a business that manufactures and sells pnntmg equipment, seeks 
classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that her "main research field is printing and packaging, with an emphasis on UV­
LED [ultraviolet light-emitting diode] printing technology .... Since 2006, the petitioner has served 
as the general manager of I Ia well-known enterprise [in China] 
that specializes in R&D, production and sales of printing press related equipment." The Petitioner 
plans "to establish a company specializing in UV-LED curing technology," using some of the 
technology that she has invented and patented. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director did not adequately explain why the Petitioner's 
evidence was not sufficient to meet her burden of proof. Below, we will address the Petitioner's 
evidence and arguments in greater detail. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
relating to scholarly articles. We also conclude that she has satisfied the third numbered criterion, 
relating to published material about the individual. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought. which require outstanding achievements of their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion as "the Chief Expert Member ofI I' (GPA). The GPA's vice president stated in a letter: "we require m~em-b-er_s_o_f_t_h_e_e-xp_e_r~t 
database to have excellent attainments," and that the Petitioner "became the Chief Expert because of her 
outstanding professional knowledge and industry reputation in the research and application of UV-LED 
printing technology." 
The record does not directly establish that the Petitioner is a member ofthe GPA. A translated certificate 
from the GP A refers to the Petitioner's one-year "appointment" as "the Chief Expert of the UV process 
technology category." A translated "Notice on Calling for Expert Members" states that, in order to 
"implement the innovation-driven strategy implemented by the party and the state," the GPA was "calling 
forl !printing industry experts from relevant organizations in the province." The documents 
do not indicate that "Expert" is a class of membership in the GP A, or that the "expert database" is an 
association in its own right, rather than an advisory body for the GPA. (The word "member" in the 
translated document refers to membership in the "expe1i database," rather than membership in the GPA.) 
The materials describe an appointed position with several listed responsibilities. A separate criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) addresses a person's role within an organization. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a certificate designating her appointment as a chief expert, but no 
ce1iificate of membership or comparable documentation identifying her as a member of the GPA. The 
vice president's letter refers to the Petitioner as a "consultant expert of our association" but does not 
specify that the Petitioner is a member of the GPA. The record does not establish that the GPA's 
membership consists of individuals (such as the Petitioner) rather than companies (such asl I The 
vice president's letter indicates that 'I IGroup is a council member of the I I I t' and refers to "printing companies" as '"members" '"of the association." 
Other submitted materials are consistent with the conclusion that the GPA's members are organizations 
rather than individuals. An "Introduction to '-------------~' states that the GP A 
consists of"printing enterprises, reproduction enterprises, printing equipment and other production and 
operation organizations, and printing research and education institutions inl t' Published 
reports about meetings ofthe GPA' s member congress refer to attendees not as members, but as "member 
representatives." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner's initial evidence did not satisfy the 
requirements ofthe criterion. The Director stated that the Petitioner "may submit" sections ofthe GP A's 
"constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership for the beneficiary's level of 
membership in the association" and "the qualifications required of the reviewers on the review panel of 
the association." 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a translation ofthe GP A's by-laws, which state"[ m ]embers 
of the association are collective members." This is consistent with GPA being an association of 
organizations, rather than individual members. The Petitioner acknowledged this information but 
attempted to minimize its significance, stating: 
[D]ue to the evolving nature of the association and its continuous adaptation of its 
organizational structure and membership categories, the constitution may not always 
3 
reflect the current situation in a prompt and comprehensive manner. For example, theI Iconstitution only mentions its collective members. 
Subsequent changes to the association's structure are often communicated through other 
official documents of the association. 
The Petitioner did not submit any other official association documents to reflect such a change. The 
unsubstantiated assertions contained in the brief are not evidence and are not entitled to any evidentiary 
weight. See Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). Even then, the Petitioner did not specifically 
claim that the GPA had, in fact, changed its membership structure. The Petitioner offered only the 
general, speculative asse1iion that the GP A's governing documents "may not always" be up-to-date. The 
GPA' s by-laws do not establish individual membership, and the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of 
equal or greater weight to establish that the published by-laws have been superseded. The a1iicle 
discussing the attendance of"member representatives" at a GPA meeting dates from August 2022, which 
was less than two months before the Petitioner filed the petition. 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence such as "the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership ofthe beneficiary's level 
of membership in the association." The Director concluded that, without such evidence, the Petitioner 
had not established that her membership in the GPA meets the regulat01y requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites previously submitted evidence and maintains that her chief expert 
appointment is a qualifying membership. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not 
established that this appointment is a membership category. The record as a whole indicates that GPA 
memberships are institutional rather than individual. The Petitioner has not submitted documentary 
evidence to rebut this conclusion, and, therefore, has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner initially stated that she "has applied for at least thirteen patents and eight computer software 
copyrights," and that her "commitment to innovation has significantly impacted China's printing and 
packaging industry." The Petitioner asserted that she has contributed "to the R&D [research and 
development] and promotion ofnew UV-LED printing equipment" and "promoting energy conservation 
and environmental protection in [the] printing and packaging industry." 
Evidence that the person's work was patented, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, 
will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is ofmajor significance to the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. But evidence that the person 
developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may 
establish the significance ofthe person's original contribution to the field. Id. 
The Petitioner relies heavily on a letter from the dean ofthe School ofPrinting and Packaging Engineering 
at theI !Institute ofGraphic Communication. Such letters may provide valuable context, but they 
have less weight if they lack documentary corroboration. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). The dean provided background information about UV-LED printing, stating, for instance, 
4 
that the technique allows for faster ink drying without the use of harmful solvents. Regarding the 
Petitioner's work in particular, the dean stated: 
UV-LED light source curing technology has not been able to achieve large-scale 
commercial applications for a long time. 
To solve the above industry problem, [the Petitioner] and her team developed an LED 
device ... for curing traditional UV ink, which can instantly cure traditional UV or LED 
ink. 
The dean listed various advantages ofUV-LED printing "[c]ompared with traditional printing," but did 
not specify how many ofthese benefits originated with the Petitioner's work. Entirely new technology, 
or substantial improvements to existing technology, would tend to have greater significance than 
incremental improvements to technology that is already available. Technical details about the Petitioner's 
patents, such as the assertion that "the power supply controls the average voltage output by the thyristor, 
thereby adjusting the voltage at both ends of the UV lamp to achieve the purpose of dimming," are not 
self-explanatory with regard to their significance. 
The dean stated: 
[The Petitioner's] patented technology has undoubtedly achieved success in the printing 
and packaging industry and attracted wide attention. Many internationally renowned 
printing press manufacturers . . . were very interested in the advanced and stable 
perfomiance of I I UV-LED device and are willing to open their rights in the 
matching of this offset press, giving priority to using UV and LED curing systems of I I. .. [The Petitioner] is one ofthe pioneers in improving the printing and packaging 
industry for energy saving and environmental protection. 
The record, however, lacks documentary evidence to corroborate these general assertions and provide 
more specific information. 
The
,_______________ ___,recognized one o~ Ipatented products as "a high-
tech product." Information from the certifying entity states that, to qualify for certification, a product 
must have "great market potential, excellent economic, social and environmental benefits, and meet[] the 
requirements of sustainable development." The Petitioner did not establish that this certification meets 
the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires "major significance in the field." 
The Petitioner submitted documentation identifying five customers that had purchased equipment from 
I lbetween 2013 and 2022. The Petitioner did not establish that these sales constitute significant 
attention or commercialization at a level that indicates major significance. Also, it is not clear how much 
ofthis equipment is the Petitioner's own patented technology. A manufacturer in New Jersey stated that I l"has helped sell our UV curing lamps to [ customers in] mainland China." 
Published articles in the record describe the advantages ofl !technology, but as noted above, the 
promotional tone of these articles raises questions about their objectivity. One ofthese articles indicates 
5 
that "I IUV-LED technology has taken the lead in achieving wide application in the industry," but 
that article and others primarily discuss! Icontracts with the same five customers. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for "independent objective evidence" to establish the major significance 
of the Petitioner's original contributions. The Petitioner's response to the RFE largely repeated the 
Petitioner's initial statement with minimal revisions, and cited prior submissions. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the documentation ofpatents in the record, but concluded 
that the Petitioner had not submitted "independent and objective evidence" of the significance of her 
original conttibutions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that "the petitioner's patented technology and products are purchased 
and used by one of the leading enterprises in China's printinf machinery manufacturing field." The use 
of the Petitioner's inventions by a major client contributes to !commercial performance, but does 
not necessarily show that those inventions are ofmajor significance in the field (as opposed to benefiting ~and individual customers). 
Much ofthe evidence cited in the petition and on appeal attests to the overall benefits ofUV-LED printing 
technology. For example, a submitted article states: "the overall market size of UV-LED printing has 
exceeded RMB 2 billion in 2021." But the record does not show that the Petitioner invented UV-LED 
printing, or made significant, widely-adopted enhancements to the technology. Statistics about the 
economic and environmental benefits of the entire UV-LED printing industry do not establish the 
significance ofthe Petitioner's specific contributions to that industry. 
The Petitioner has established that she has made original contributions in her field, but has not met her 
burden ofproof to show the major significance of those contt·ibutions. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion through her position as general manager ofD and her 
appointment as a chief expert with the GP A 
The record establishes that the Petitioner's general manager position is a leading role at~I-~I The next 
question is whether! lhas a distinguished reputation. 
The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a distinguished reputation 
exists. Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation ofan organization or establishment can include 
the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted a profile of the company from the GP A's website. The translated printout in the 
record does not identify the author of the profile, and therefore we cannot determine whether it is a self­
promotional piece written by ac::=] employee. The profile, therefore, is not strong evidence ofl 
distinguished reputation. 
6 I 
The Petitioner submitted documentation showing thatl lhad won or bid on contracts with various 
customers in China, and that~ is a distributor for UV curing lamps manufactured by a company in 
New Jersey. These materials document! !business activity but do not directly establish or attest to 
the company's distinguished reputation. 
Translated certificates in the record show the following information aboutLJ 
• In 2015, I I was accredited as a 'I IScience and Technology Innovation Giant 
Ente1prise"· 
• In 2016,Obegan a two-year appointjent as "the third session council member of the China 
Printing Technology Association 1 Printing Branch"; 
• In 2017, the GPA namedl Ito a four-year term as a council member; 
• In 2017 and again in 2020, various provincial authorities namedl Ia "High-tech Enterprise," 
valid for three years; and 
• In 2018 and 2020, thel~---~IAdministration for Industry and Commerce namedc=] a 
'I I Province Enterprise of Observing Contract and Valuing Credit." 
The Petitioner did not provide indelpender evidence to establish the significance ofthese ce1tificates and 
explain how they demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for more evidence of the nature of the Petitioner's roles and the 
distinguished reputations ofthe organizations. In response, the Petitioner submittld cop es ofpreviously 
submitted materials and a translated 2022 article from Huanqiu that called 1"a well-known 
enterprise in the printing and packaging industry." The article did not elaborate farther, instead discussing 
the overall importance of "green and environment-friendly production methods" and I Ieff01is in 
that vein. 
Media coverage is one factor to consider when examining an organization's distinguished reputation. See 
generally 6 USCJS Poli? Man ual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). But while the Petitioner has submitted a small 
number of articles about 1and some of its business deals, the Petitioner did not establish the extent 
to which this level of coverage distinguishes~ from other companies in the same field. 
The Petitioner also named some of....l ___.I clients, but did not explain how these clients establish that 
I lhas a distinguished reputation. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not established the distinguished reputations 
of the organizations. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that evidence submitted in response to the RFE 
is sufficient to establish! I distinguished reputation. As discussed above, the record establishes the 
Petitioner's leading role ate=] and it identifies some ofl !clients, but the record lacks sufficient 
objective, independent evidence to show thatl I has a distinguished reputation among companies in 
its industry. 
The Petitioner also claims to have performed in a critical role for the GPA. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome ofthe organization or establishment's activities or those ofa division or department ofthe 
7 
I organization or establishment. A supporting role may be considered critical if the person's performance 
in the role is (or was) important. It is not the title ofthe person's role, but rather the person's performance 
in the role that determines whether the role is, or was, critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
With respect to the Petitioner's appointment as a chief expert for the GP A, the "Letter of Appointment" 
specified that the Petitioner had been named "the Chief Expert ofthe UV process technology category of 
" The Petitioner did not provide documentation demonstrating the~-----------~ nature and scope of the duties she had performed as a chief expert. 
The vice president of the GPA stated that the chief expert is "the highest-level member of the expert 
database" and that the Petitioner "played an essential role in promoting the growth of the [GPA]." 
Regarding the nature of that role, the official stated that the Petitioner helped member companies to 
upgrade to "environmentally friendly and energy-saving UV-LED curing printing systems." The official 
also observed thatl lsells those curing systems. The record does not demonstrate that, or explain 
how, the Petitioner's promotion of her own company's products was of significant importance to the 
outcome of the GP A's activities. Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish she had a leading or critical 
role for GPA. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for "detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the 
beneficiary's role for the organization or establishment is or was leading or critical. Details should include 
the specific tasks or accomplishments of the beneficiary as compared to others who are employed in 
similar pursuits within the field ofendeavor." In response, the Petitioner resubmitted the same letter from 
the GP A's vice president, which discussed the Petitioner's qualifications for the chief expert appointment 
but not the duties of that appointment or why the role was critical for the GP A. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the letters submitted in response to the RFE "did not provide 
the detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the beneficiary's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. Also, the letters did not explain the specific tasks or 
accomplishments of the beneficiary as compared to others who are employed in similar pursuits within 
the field of endeavor." 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes the previously submitted letter from the GP A's vice president. That letter 
indicates that the Petitioner "played an essential role in promoting the growth of the~------~ tbut the letter does not explain how the Petitioner's work as a chief expert advanced that 
goal. Instead, the letter contends that the Petitioner and I Ihave helped companies adopt new 
technology. But this assertion speaks to the Petitioner's role atl lwhich sells the technology in 
question to some of the GPA's member companies. The quoted passage from the vice president's letter 
does not explain what the Petitioner's role as a chief expert entailed or how it was critical to the GPA. 
The assertion that I Iproducts are beneficial to the GPA's member companies is not sufficient, 
because the benefit from those products is not contingent on the Petitioner's appointment as chief expert. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that her role as a chief expert was critical for the GP A, we need 
not explore the separate issue ofwhether the GP A has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a "Proof of Personal Income" document from I Iindicating that the 
Petitioner's annual salary plus bonuses was about ¥1.17 million in 2019, ¥1.36 million in 2020, and ¥2.1 
million in 2021. 
The Petitioner submitted a "Printing and Packaging Industry Salary Survey Report" for 2020, indicating 
that general managers in China with more than 10 years of experience earned average salaties ranging 
from ¥995,000 for high school graduates to ¥1.29 million for individuals with doctorates. 
The Director stated, in the RFE, that the submitted evidence was not sufficient to satisfy the regulatmy 
requirements. In response, the Petitioner submitted additional excerpts from the salary survey report, 
primarily dealing with the salaries oflower-level employees in the p1inting and packaging industry. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that "[t]he petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
compare the beneficiary's salary with others of the same position in the field." On appeal, the Petitioner 
cites previously submitted evidence and repeats the claim that her "salaty is significantly high relative to 
others working in the field." 
Also in the denial, the Director stated: "The petitioner did not submit the evidence like media rep01is of 
notably high salaries earned by others in the beneficiary's field; and list [sic] compiled by credible 
professional organization(s) of the top earners in a field." On appeal, the Petitioner protests that the 
Director introduces "new grounds" beyond the information in the RFE, and that therefore the Petitioner 
did not have an opportunity to submit such evidence. But in the RFE, the Director listed both media 
reports and lists oftop earners as evidence the Petitioner could support in response to the RFE. 
The documentation of industry averages the Petitioner submitted shows salaries only, while the figures 
for Petitioner's earnings combine salary and bonuses. These mismatched figures do not permit a direct 
comparison between the Petitioner and others in the industry, either on the basis ofbase salary alone or 
total compensation. Therefore, the evidence submitted does not show that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
9 
I (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition of her work that 
shows the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career ofacclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has patented useful inventions and developed software relating to UV-LED printing, 
and she has used this technology to run what appears to be a successful business. She has not, however, 
shown that this success has risen to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. Her 
reputation, instead, appears to be heavily concentrated inl !Province. Her appointment as a 
chief expert, for example, is with a provincial-level association. We acknowledge the assertion that 
Ihosts a disproportionate share of China's printing industry, but this does not establish 
sustained acclaim at the required national or international level. 
The Petitioner's name has appeared in a small number ofnationally published articles, but the tone of 
the articles appears to be promotional rather than journalistic. Rather than announce recent 
developments that would account for media attention, most of the articles offer general praise for the 
Petitioner, her company, and its products. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the 
person's products or promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the person (this includes seemingly objective content about the person in major print 
publications that the person or their employer paid for). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F .2(B)( 1 ). 1 Among the materials that the Petitioner submitted in attempt to establish that the articles 
appeared in major media is part of a report by a marketing agency, stating that one such "website 
seems to have companies who want to put their information online as their clients, and post positive 
information for them on their website." 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 We note that most of the articles are broadly similar and appeared within a short period of time immediately preceding 
the September 2022 filing of the petition. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 28, 2023 In Re: 28455766 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dressage rider and trainer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of the individual's sustained national or 
international acclaim, as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been 
recognized in the field. Section 203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). If a petitioner can show that one or more of the 
evidentiary criteria are not readily applicable to their occupation, then they may submit evidence that 
is comparable to the required evidence. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dressage rider who has been competing for more than 20 years, and who has also 
been training dressage horses and riders for several years. She intends to continue to compete in 
dressage events in the United States, as well as train horses and riders to compete in those events. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
awards in her field, and to published material about her in professional publications. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions of major 
significance to her field, and a leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation in the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that she meets 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of prizes or awards received as a 
dressage rider, particularly the 2020 USDF ~-----~and first place at the 2021 I I 
Dressage Festival, was sufficient to meet this criterion. While we agree that she meets this criterion 
as a rider, we base this conclusion on the evidence ofher receipt ofteam and individual gold and silver 
medals at the I Ichampionships in 2006 and 2007, as well as the 2007 I !trophy awarded by the United States Dressage Federation. 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several articles about her and her work as a dressage competitor that were 
published on websites serving the equestrian sports industry. Many ofthese articles, particularly those 
posted on the blog website eurodressage.com, did not list an author, and therefore did not meet the 
requirements ofthis criterion. Others noted that they were press releases, prepared by an organization 
with which the Petitioner was affiliated in order to promote the organization and its members. Such 
marketing materials are not generally considered to be published material about a petitioner. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. However, the Petitioner 
also submitted articles published on the website of Chronicles ofthe Horse, a magazine devoted to 
equestrian sports, which did include all of the requisite information. Based upon this evidence, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In their decision, the Director acknowledged that the reference letters submitted by experts and others 
in the dressage field showed that the Petitioner has been successful as a dressage trainer, but concluded 
that the letters lacked specificity regarding the originality ofher training methodology and its influence 
on the field of equestrian sports. They also noted the lack of documentary evidence in the record to 
substantiate the writer's statements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the reference letters include details concerning her dressage 
training method and its originality, and that the Director erred by not giving the letters adequate 
consideration. She highlights sections of several of the letters, including the one written bye=]I I a dressage judge. In describing the benefits and originality of the Petitioner's training 
techniquesJ Iletter in large part restates the Petitioner's own description of her training. 
Notably, the letter states that the Petitioner's techniques are original through their "linkage ofanatomy 
and biomechanics (using the science of movement) to align, balance and harmonize the rider with the 
movements and character of each rider's horse so that the horse/rider are an aligned/coordinated pair 
and by explaining how to achieve the required result so that the rider can self-sustain the correct 
movements." Whereas the Petitioner writes the following in her statement: 
The originality of my training/schooling and coaching is centered on marrying the 
science of movement (biomechanics) to the specific movement pattern of each horse 
(as no two horses are the same such that no horse/rider combination is the same) and 
3 
biomechanically aligning the rider in the saddle with the horse's specific movement 
pattern to achieve a synchronized and harmonious unit when executing dressage 
movements. 
Another letter with similar language was signed by ._I____ ___.I board member of the Dressage 
Foundation. Her letter includes the following sentence: 
What is original and highly significant and beneficial is [the Petitioner's] ability to 
simultaneously ensure, (while riders are being instructed on the execution ofthe various 
dressage movements within the "scales of training") that each horse/rider pair are 
executing the dressage movements, with the correct biomechanical/balanced alignment 
such that the movement(s) being taught are, in fact, executed properly such that when 
the test movements are aggregated the pair's performance will be optimal. 
The similarities in style and grammar in these statements are unmistakable. As a general concept, 
when a petitioner has provided affidavits from different persons that contribute to the eligibility claim, 
but the language and structure contained within the affidavits is notably similar, the trier of fact may 
treat those similarities as a basis for questioning a petitioner's claims. 1 When affidavits contain such 
similarities, it is reasonable to infer that the petitioner who submitted the notably similar documents 
is the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. Cf Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of 
Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007); Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d at 592. As a result, the letters 
possess significantly diminished probative value. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. at 376 (quoting Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). Here, the similarities 
between the Petitioner's statement and several of the reference letters, including I I and 
I I significantly reduces the evidentiary value of this evidence. 
We also note that many of the letters incorporate language from the regulations. In addition toDC==:J statement that the Petitioner's abilities are "original and highly significant,"! I 
L_jwrites that the Petitioner's "methodology is ofmajor significance in its originality." Repeating 
the language ofthe statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden ofproof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). We also note that 
originality and significance are separate requirements of this criterion and must be met separately. 
In addition, despite the Petitioner's claims, I Iletter does not provide details on how the 
Petitioner uses biomechanical concepts in her training, nor does it substantiate the claim that the use 
of biomechanical concepts in dressage training is an original contribution by the Petitioner. Rather, 
the letter describes the desired results of those training techniques, and arrives at the conclusion that 
her methodology has "accelerated the dressage learning curve particularly the progressively more 
1 See Matter ofR-K-K-. 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland. No. 19-60937, 2021 WL 5984797, at *2 
(5th Cir. Dec. 17. 2021); Surinder Singh v. Board ofImmigration Appeals. 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006); Wang v. 
Lynch. 824 F.3d 587. 592 (6th Cir. 2016); Dehonzai v. Holder. 650 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2011); Hamal v. U.S. Dep't of 
Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, WL 2338316, at *4, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
4 
complex movements in the upper dressage levels as the results are proven" without describing the 
results to which it refers. 
The reference letters all indicate that the Petitioner has the ability to draw upon her classical training 
and experience as a rider to develop an individualized training regimen suited for each horse. In 
addition, they explain that she is able to clearly communicate to dressage riders that she trains how 
their own movements and positioning affect their horse's movements. While each such training can 
be considered to be unique to that horse and rider, as is stressed by the Petitioner, the letters do not 
establish that she has created an original method oftraining that has contributed to the broader dressage 
or equestrian community. Nor do they show that the results of her training have been so impactful 
that they have been of major significance to the field. I I founder of an equestrian training 
facility and the father of one of the Petitioner's trainees, writes that several of his students, including 
his daughter, have had significant improvements in their performances and results. I I a 
rider who competes in show jumping at the international level, explains that the Petitioner has helped 
to train her horses, and that she has seen her competition results improve as a direct result. Similarly,I I an experienced equestrian who has been training with the Petitioner for six months, 
explains that the Petitioner was highly recommended to her, that the Petitioner has improved the 
conditioning of her horse, and that the Petitioner clearly explains how to im rove her riding. Beyond 
the reference letters, an article on the eurodressage.com website dated 2014 notes that the 
Petitioner coached a rider who placed fourth and sixth at a national competition in~---~ Florida. 
While this evidence shows that the Petitioner has contributed to the advancement of individual riders 
and horses under her tutelage, it does not establish that she has made a contribution of major 
significance to the overall field of equestrian sports, or more specifically dressage. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director should have considered her claim under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) that because there is no tangible proof of her training method, the reference 
letters analyzed above should be considered as comparable evidence. This argument was initially 
made in response to the Director's RFE, which states that "generally, an original contribution is 
research, techniques, inventions, or other intellectual property that the petitioner created and 
developed." While those types of documents may be submitted to show the originality of a claimed 
contribution by some petitioners, they are not applicable to all fields or all individuals seeking 
classification as individuals of extraordinary ability as the Director's statement suggests. The plain 
language of the regulations does not specify or limit the type of evidence that may be submitted in 
support of this criterion. However, for that same reason, the comparable evidence provision is itself 
not readily applicable to this criterion. Further, claims that reference letters should be accepted as 
comparable evidence, as the Petitioner does here, are generally not persuasive. We have instead 
considered those reference letters under the plain language of this criterion, as described above. 
For all of the reasons provided above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have performed in either a leading or 
critical role for an organization or establishment. Evidence of a leading role should demonstrate that 
5 
the petitioner was a leader within the organization or establishment, or a division or department 
thereof. For a critical role, the evidence must show that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is 
of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. 
Second, the petitioner must establish that the organization or establishment for which they hold or held 
a qualifying role has a distinguished reputation. This may include, but is not limited to, the evaluation 
of factors such as the size and longevity of the establishment (but not exclusively), the scale of its 
customer base, and relevant media coverage. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's role for .________ ~was leading or critical, but 
did not specify which applied to her role. The only evidence submitted in support of this aspect of the 
Petitioner's claim was a letter froml Ithe company's owner. He explains that the role played 
by the Petitioner in selecting young horses and training them for dressage competition at the rghestl 
levels is critical to the success of his company, and cites the example of one particular horse I I trained by her which was recognized as the top seven-year-old dressage horse in the United 
States. As such, we agree that the Petitioner has established that her role with I Iis ( or was) 
critical. 
Turning to the second element of this criterion, the distinguished reputation ofi Ithe 
Director determined that the evidence was insufficient. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the 
reputation ofi Ishould be judged by the success of its owner and namesakeJ I 
However, the record shows that I lis engaged not just in supporting the owner's career as 
a dressage competitor, but also offers rider and horse training and horse sales services. Therefore, its 
overall reputation in all of these activities will determine whether it has achieved distinction when 
compared to other such companies. 
Turning first to the evidence ofl Isuccess as a dressage rider, this consists of his own letter, 
pages from his company's website, and articles about him. Other than providing facts about himself 
and his company that he wishes to be considered, the letter has minimal weight in demonstrating that 
has a distinguished reputation, as reputation is the perception of others in the equestrian L...--------,-.J-----, 
sports field. writes that as a dressage competitor, he was selected to represent the U.S. at the 
2019 .______ __.Games, but was forced to withdraw after his horse sustained an injury. This is 
confirmed by an interview of him published on the website ofSidelines magazine on I I 2020. 
This and other articles confirm his wins at the Intermediate and Grand Prix levels, including national 
championships at the Intermediate level in 2019 and 2020. 
The record also shows that in addition to the success in training.______________ __.I I have also won U.S. young horse championships with other horses. In addition, he has 
coached riders that have had national I success in the Young Rider and Grand Prix divisions. The 
totality ofthis evidence shows that lenjoys a distinguished reputation in the dressage field 
at the national level. We therefore disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
6 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, so we will move 
on to the next part of the adjudication: the final merits determination. In a final merits determination, 
we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether the petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence that she meets that standard. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). 
As noted above, the Petitioner intends to remain in the United States to continue competing in dressage 
tournaments and events, while also continuing to train dressage riders and horses. In general, 
competitive athletics and coaching are not in the same area of expertise, as they rely upon different 
sets of skills. Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 917-8 (N.D. Ill. 2002). However, we acknowledge 
that many extraordinary athletes have gone on to become extraordinary coaches. Therefore, where a 
petitioner has established recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim as a coach, we may consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of 
sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
As we acknowledged above when considering the Petitioner's lesser awards as a dressage competitor, 
she attained international success when competing at the Young Rider level. Her team and individual 
awards in 2006 also led to her selection to represent Canada at the.__ _________ __.Final, 
where she finished fourth overall out of twelve international competitors. However, the record does 
not show that she has sustained the same level ofcompetition success since at the top Grand Prix level 
or in national and international competition. This evidence includes a certificate showing that the 
Petitioner was awarded with the 2020 ~-----~by the United States Dressage Federation 
"for achievement at: Intermediate I and/or Intermediate II and Grand Prix," as well as a Silver Medal 
for the same at the fourth level andl IBut the certificates are not accompanied by an 
explanation of their significance or the criteria by which they were awarded, and are thus of marginal 
evidentiary value in showing the Petitioner's standing or acclaim as a competitor in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that she has competed in over 60 dressage events since 2014, and lists 
several first place results in dressage competitions at the Grand Prix and I llevels. 
However, the record lacks documentary evidence of most of these awards, with only a few being 
mentioned in articles on equestrian sports websites. Further, even if all of the awards were supported 
by documentary evidence, the record also lacks evidence showing that these wins, individually or 
cumulatively, help to show sustained acclaim or place the Petitioner at or near the top of her field as a 
dressage competitor. To the contrary, an article from the eurodressage.com website dated I 
D2017 that reports on the 2017 I I qualifier inl !North Carolina notes the Petitioner's 
Grand Prix win, but also that the competition "was unable to draw North American top riders." 
7 I 
I Although the editor-in-chief of the eurodressage.com website writes in her letter that the Petitioner "is 
one of the best dressage riders in the history of the sport," this article from the website clearly 
undermines that assessment. We also note that while the Petitioner's win at the 201 71 
Dqualifier was also reported on other websites focused on equestrian sports, the record does not 
include media reports on any of the Petitioner's more recent claimed wins. Further, the record shows 
that the frequency of media articles reporting on her competition results drops dramatically from the 
time of her early career to more recent years, with the article noted above and others commenting on 
her absence from the top levels of competition and aspirations to greater achievements. While we 
acknowledge that the COVID-19 pandemic affected equestrian competitions as it did many other 
sports, the totality of the record does not establish that the Petitioner has enjoyed sustained acclaim at 
the national or international level as a dressage competitor, or that she is one of the small percentage 
of dressage competitors at the top of that field. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work as a dressage trainer, we have considered the reference letters 
submitted by her colleagues, employers, trainers and clients when determining the originality and 
significance of her training methods above. As we noted, this evidence was not sufficient to show that 
she has established an original method of training that has impacted or influenced the dressage or 
equestrian sports field to the required extent. In addition, the record shows that the Petitioner has 
trained riders who have gone on to have some success. Specifically,! Inoted that two of his 
own students, including his daughter, "obtained top of class scores due to [the Petitioner's] coaching." 
Others, such I I note the improvements in their horses under the 
Petitioner's training. And as previously noted, she submitted a single published article regarding one 
of her trainee's fourth and sixth place finishes in a national competition. While this evidence shows 
that her expertise is appreciated by her clients and has led to general improvements in both theirs and 
their horses dressage performance, it does not demonstrate that she has been recognized for her efforts 
as a trainer at the national or international level. 
Other evidence in the record is more specific regarding her acclaim and standing as a dressage trainer, 
particularly relating to her work atl l We acknowledge that her position with this company 
demonstrates that her expertise in dressage training has been acknowledged by her employer, an 
organization which has attained some level of distinction in the dressage community. This is 
demonstrated through the evidence of her work withl I who was ranked as a top young 
dressage horse in the United States. However, despite the submission of several articles which focus 
on the success ofl Iwe note that none of these articles mention the Petitioner and her 
contribution to his training as a dressage horse. While she has worked for several years as a trainer of 
dressage horses and riders, the evidence is insufficient to show that she has enjoyed sustained acclaim 
for this work or that she is one of the small percentage at the top of this field. 
Considering the totality of the evidence and the Petitioner's arguments on appeal, we conclude that 
she has not established that she meets the elite standards to be classified as a dressage competitor and 
trainer of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
8 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner is currently in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
Although we acknowledge that this status relates to extraordinary ability, the record of proceeding for 
the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in 
that case were the same as those in the present proceeding. Further, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Even if a service center director has approved a 
nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the 
adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 
2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5190719 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Initial Evidence 
The Petitioner is a computer scientist who identified his "Field of Expertise" as "5G ( and beyond) mobile 
network architecture, mobile big data analytics, mobile network verification, cutting edge mobile 
applications, and network/system security." At the time he filed the petition in January 2018, the 
Petitioner identified himself as a "[p ]ostdoc scholar" at the University of I I I I Subsequent submissions indicate that, shortly before the time offilinJ' he had begun seeking 
to commercialize his work through a new company called I 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had met three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria, pertaining to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv); original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We will not disturb these findings. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
1 More recently,_] ____ __,I filed a nonimmigrant petition on his behalf in March 2019; that petition was approved shortly 
afterward. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim; that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor; and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we 
analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner listed his accomplishments in computer science, including the following examples: 
I create~ lthe world's first tool for~-----------~ 
mobile data analytics. 
I proposed and developed a new platform that enables._! ____ ___.I of mobile big 
data among smartphones. 
I proposed and developed the first Jaradigm in the mobile network that parallelizes the I !data access. 
Because the Director did not dispute the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions, we need 
not discuss those contributions in technical detail. At issue here is not the nature or usefulness of the 
Petitioner's contributions, but rather the extent of the acclaim he has earned in his field. 
The Petitioner's mentor atl I stated that the Petitioner "is arguably among the top-two fresh PhD 
graduates in the networking and mobile systems field this year, and one of the top five during the past 
five years." Eligibility requires the Petitioner to be at the top of his field, rather than the subset of 
"fresh PhD graduates." More relevant is the professor's contention that the Petitioner "is among the 
top 1 % computer scientist[s] worldwide." This is either a subjective assessment or an objectively 
verifiable statement. If it is the latter, then it should derive from some empirical basis that exists 
independently ofletters that the Petitioner submitted in support of his petition. 
Various colleagues indicated that the Petitioner's activities reflect his recognition in the field. For 
instance, a professor at.__ ___________ ____.State University stated: 
[The Petitioner] has won J I Best Community Paper A ward in 2016 and 
201 7. His dissertation has won the I I Dissertation Year Fellowship in 2016. This 
evidence strongly suggests that [the Petitioner's] current work has been highly 
recognized by his peers in the scientific community. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
... In recognition of his outstanding research contributions, [the Petitioner] has been 
invited to present his research work at ... significant and highly regarded conferences 
in this field. 
The recognition described above does not indicate national or international acclaim. The I I 
c=]Fellowship is a form of merit-based financial aid for students who, by definition, are still learning 
their trade. The record does not show that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at 
the top of the field. Awards at major conferences carry more weight, but they still represent the 
response of a limited audience to one particular paper. A consistent pattern of such awards from 
different conferences would provide greater support for a finding that the Petitioner has earned 
sustained acclaim (rather than certain contributions receiving attention in the short term). 
A research mana er at si ned a letter indicating that the Petitioner "started to commercialize his 
inventions via.__ _______ ___,--__,.~ in 201 7. . . . In December of 201 7, we have started a 
dialogue with his team to discuss the.__ _ __. s features that are of interest and very complimentary to 
the analytics and performance monitoring systems." This collaboration was at an embryonic stage 
when the Petitioner filed the petition in January 2018, and the individual discussed the project in terms 
of its "potential" and its "anticipated" results. 
The same letter included this passage: 
I have a keen interest in the upcoming product by [the Petitioner's] startup, because of 
its anticipated unique ability to perform the '------------------' analytics inside the smartphones and mobile devices .... 
I firmly believe that [the Petitioner] is an extraordinary technological inventor with an 
industry-oriented mindset. I can, without hesitation, state that he is one of the very few 
top research scientists in the cellular analytics field who has deep insight on the trends 
of the technology, need for advancement and also the commercial utilization of it. 
A letter signed by a principal researcher at .... I ---~I contains similar, at times identical, language: 
My team is very interested in thel I product because of its unique ability to 
perform the.__ _____ __. analytics for the operational mobile networks inside the 
smartphones .... 
I firmly believe that [the Petitioner] is an extraordinary technololical invrtor with an 
industry-oriented mindset. Based on his research track record at he is one of 
the very few top research scientists in the cellular analytics field who has deep insight 
on the technology trend, market needs and commercial utilization. 
An assistant professor atl !university signed a letter stating that the Petitioner "is one of the very 
few top research scientists in the field who has deep insight on the trend of the technology trend and 
4 
need for advancement and also the commercial utilization of it," while the chief executive officer of 
~-------------~ signed a letter calling the Petitioner "one of the top research 
scientists in the field who has deep insight on the trend of the technology, need for advancement and 
also the commercial utilization of it." These similarities strongly indicate common authorship of the 
letters or key portions thereof 
Likewise, two different letters contain the same passage with the same grammatical error: "As an 
inventor myself: I understand this means [the Petitioner's] contribution is going into many research 
labs and industry, and it gains him acclaims [sic] by researchers worldwide." A third letter contains a 
shortened variant: "As an inventor myself, I understand this means [the Petitioner's] contributions 
have received acclaims [sic] by researchers worldwide." (In another apparent indicator of outside 
authorship, an official atl I signed a letter stating that the Petitioner's "contributions 
... could not have been made by an average Ph.D. level chemist." The Petitioner is not a chemist.) 
The systemic use of identical or strongly similar language suggests the language in the letters is not 
the authors' own. Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 
2006) (upholding an immigration judge's adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings 
based in part on the similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of Justice, 489 
F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when 
an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
Even if the letters had been of independent origin, we must also consider the extent to which the record 
objectively supports the claims in the letters. The Petitioner indicated that his "original award-winning 
research contribution has been used by 24 7 universities ... , big companies ... , and 
startups.".__ ____ __. s use by other institutions may speak to its significance, but the Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient context to show that this breadth of application is unusual in the field. 
Also, the significance of a contribution is not synonymous with acclaim for the people behind that 
contribution. Otherwise, the regulations would not require evidence of acclaim beyond those 
contributions. We must examine all the evidence, to determine whether it converges toward an overall 
finding of acclaim. 
The Petitioner stated that his "pioneering research publications ... have been cited over 220 times by 
researchers from 2 7 countries." By way of comparison, the Petitioner's mentor a~ I stated: "My 
work has been cited more than 23,000 times according to Google Scholar." 
The Petitioner submitted statistical analyses from Dimensions, indicating that five of his articles are 
"extremely highly cited," earning between 7.27 and "19 times more citations than average." These 
figures can be misleading, because the range of citations is broad; the most-cited articles can receive 
hundreds or thousands of citations, while others are cited once or not at all. Above average is not 
necessarily synonymous with the top of the field. A submitted printout from Altmetric indicated that 
the Petitioner's most-cited article has a "Good Attention Score compared to outputs of the same age 
(76th percentile)." The Petitioner did not show that "Good" is the highest ranking of attention score, 
and he did not submit attention score information for any of his other articles. From the information 
submitted, one article with a citation record near the bottom of the top quartile is not indicative of 
sustained acclaim, or standing as one in the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
5 
The Petitioner also documented the number of downloads for some of his articles. The Petitioner 
stated that one of his articles "received 1,618 downloads, which is ... objective evidence to prove that 
[he] as sustained national or international acclaim." The download count only shows how many people 
have had the opportunity to read the article; it does not tell us the article's subsequent effect on those 
who downloaded it. The same document that showed the download count of 1618 also showed 
"Citation Count: 4." If downloads rarely result in citations, then the download count does not appear 
to correlate directly to the article's influence. 
The Petitioner compared his recent productivity and citation rates to those of"highly reputable leading 
scientists," whom the Petitioner also referred to as "highly esteemed scientists." Biographical 
information relating to these individuals indicates that their overall accomplishments and reputations 
substantially exceed those of the Petitioner. The Petitioner does not place himself among their ranks 
simply by showing that his output was, by some measures, comparable to theirs from 2016 to 2018. 
The Director stated that the Petitioner had published scholarly articles "in prestigious journals," and 
that "some of [his] papers are frequently cited," but concluded that the Petitioner had not provided a 
sufficient basis for comparison to show that he is at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner stated: "Due to my outstanding contributions ... , I have been invited and have served 
as an expert reviewer for the ... world's top conferences and journals." The Petitioner documented 
his peer review work, which the Director recognized under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but he did not 
submit evidence from the conference organizers and journal publishers to establish how they select 
peer reviewers. Several conference-related peer review invitations came from the same source, who 
is one of the Petitioner's frequent collaborators. Therefore, the Petitioner has not supported his 
assertion that the peer review invitations were "[ d]ue to [his] outstanding contributions" rather than 
more mundane factors such as, for example, his involvement in the field or submitting his name to 
volunteer as a peer reviewer. 
Several review invitations in the record included this request: "If you are unable to complete the 
review at this time, we would be grateful if you could recommend a qualified student, postdoc, or 
colleague to review this paper." This demonstrates that a student in the Petitioner's field can qualify 
as a peer reviewer even while their training is incomplete. One peer review invitation from September 
2018 appeared to indicate that the Petitioner was chosen as a reviewer because the paper under 
consideration included a citation to the Petitioner's work. Some review invitations referred to the 
Petitioner's expertise in his field, but expertise is not the same as national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner did not show that his participation in peer review demonstrated acclaim. 
The Petitioner notes on appeal that he "is a winner and recipient of the National Science Foundation's 
(NSF) Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Award based on his excellent research results and 
future development proposal submitted in 2018." What the Petitioner describes as an award is a grant 
to fond continued research and development. At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was 
"currently applying" for the grant; the approval occurred in January 2019, a year after the filing date. 
Documentation about applying for the grant does not show that eligibility rests on "excellent research 
results." Rather, NSF's website, quoted in the record, indicated that "[t]he NSF SBIR program seeks 
innovative proposals that show promise of commercial and societal impact." A purpose of "Phase I 
6 
proposals," like the one involving the Petitioner, is to "establish[] technical feasibility or proof of 
concept of unproven, risky technologies." 
The Petitioner has shown that he is a capable and productive researcher, whose work has been of value 
in his field. Nevertheless, the materials cited as evidence of his claimed stature at the top of his field 
rely on limited comparisons (such as comparing the citation rate of an article to the citations of other 
articles in the same issue of the same journal). This method highlights the Petitioner's most successful 
publications, without showing a consistent pattern of such success. Focusing only on the Petitioner's 
most highly-cited articles conflates isolated "contributions of major significance" with an overall 
pattern of "sustained acclaim." 
In terms of the Petitioner's demonstrable impact, commercialization of his work was still at a very 
early stage at the time of filing, and the record provides little information aboutl I other than to 
establish that it exists ( or existed as of 2018). 
The objective evidence in the record indicates that some of the Petitioner's most recent efforts have 
attracted attention in the field, and authorities such as the Small Business Administration view his 
work as promising. The record is less persuasive with respect to the realization of that promise, and 
solicited descriptions of the Petitioner's claimed standing in the field show unmistakable evidence of 
shared authorship, which undermines the claimed independence of those descriptions and thus their 
value as evidence of sustained acclaim. 
The record, as a whole, does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the record shows that the Petitioner's accomplishments have been well 
received, the totality of the evidence does not indicate he has sustained national or international acclaim 
and he is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20211842 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tax accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from the Director's 
decision. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new.facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
From 198 7 to 19 8 9, the Petitioner worked as an international tax associate atl I in I I California. Since 1989, the Petitioner has worked for an affiliate of I I China, where he is now vice chair and international tax 
partner. The Petitioner filed the petition in May 2019. Since that time, he has periodically entered the 
United States as either an F-1 nonimmigrant student or a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor, but he continues 
to reside primarily inl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
2 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to published materials about him, 
authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. In our appellate decision, we concluded 
that the Petitioner had met the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles, leading or critical 
roles, and high remuneration. 
Because we determined that the Petitioner had submitted the required initial evidence, we proceeded 
to a final merits determination to evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to detem1ine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits new evidence by which he seeks to augment the 
evidence he had previously submitted in order to satisfy the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For the reasons explained below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown proper cause to reopen 
the proceeding. 
In our dismissal decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's high-ranking position atl I but 
concluded that the Petitioner's evidence is "not sufficient to demonstrate how this work has elevated his 
status within the broader field of business, or his specialization in taxation." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits letters from two retired! I executives. One of these 
individuals, a former international tax partner, briefly worked directly with the Petitioner, and afte1ward 
consulted him for advice regarding I tax matters." This individual asserts that the Petitioner 
reached "the highest levels of management and responsibility withinl I but provides few 
details and does not establish that the Petitioner earned recognition outsidd I 
former chief executive officer (CEO) states that by 2010 the Petitioner "was clearly 
established as premier expe1i on all tax matters involved in U.S.-China business 
transactions. In addition, he was recognized broadly as one of the best international tax practitioners 
globally, as evidenced by his twice being named a 'Leading Individual in Taxation' by the International 
Tax Review." Noting that the Petitioner wrote articles and sat for "interviews with a wide variety of 
media," the former CEO also asserted that these "activities were by invitation based on recognition of his 
expertise by the industry ... and those invited must have arrived at the summit of their profession." 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
3 
The record does not support the claim that International Tax Review (ITR) named the Petitioner as a 
"Leading Individual in Taxation." In our prior decision, we stated: "the evidence showing that the 
Petitioner was named as one of several tax experts in in International Tax Review's 'World 
Tax Rankings' in 2009 does not set him apart from others so named, or from those taxation experts who 
work in other parts of the w011d." 
On motion, the Petitioner does not identify any published material fromITR in the record that names the 
Petitioner as a "Leading Individual in Taxation." An email messa e from ITR's commercial editor 
indicates that the Petitioner "was profiled as part of leadership profile in 
International Tax Review's World Tax rankings fo ___ in 2009." Those rankings pertained to 
firms rather than individuals. The Petitioner's initial submission included a four-pageprintoutfrom those 
rankings, which identifier-7as one of fivel I tax firms in I Within that printout, 
a two-paragraph profile of names three company officials and states that the Petitioner is one of 
two officials who "are regularly involved in discussions with government bodies for the development and 
interpretation of new rules and regulations." The document does not refer to the Petitioner as a "Leading 
Individual in Taxation" or present itself as a ranking of such individuals. 2 
The undocumented claim about ITR' s World Tax rankings influences our conclusions about the overall 
reliability of the newly submitted letter. Where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is 
in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter 
of Caron Int'!, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). We must view in this light of the former 
CEO's uncorroborated assertions about the significance of the Petitioner's interviews and authorship of 
articles. The record does not contain statements from the media outlets that interviewed the Petitioner, or 
the publishers of outlets that carried his articles, indicating selection of authors or interviewees based on 
an individual's high ranking in their field. 
The record likewise lacks support for the Petitioner's assertion on motion that his "recognition in the field 
is further validated by the fact that he was invited to serve as a member of the Taxation Committee of I I General Chamber of Commerce"! l The evidence of the Petitioner's committee 
service consists of a previously submitted letter from a deputy CEO of the I I who confinned that 
the Petitioner was a "member of good standing with the Committee" from 2004 to 2010. The Petitioner 
did not submit evidence to show the requirements for committee membership or otherwise provide details 
as to how the Petitioner joined the committee and the significance of that membership. The letter points 
to the Petitioner's local prominence in the I financial community, without establishing wider 
recognition at the national or international level that the statute and regulations demand. 
The Petitioner submits copies of three "recent articles in which the Petitioner was interviewed and quoted 
regarding different important business issues." The Petitioner asserts that these articles illustrate "his own 
status as a tax expert in the business field." 
2 The Petitioner had originally claimed that this brief mention in ITR's World Tax rankings constitutes "an award for 
excellence in the field of taxation." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown his receipt of any award, 
and the Petitioner did not pursue the claim on appeal. 
4 
A 2015 article from Forbes mentions the Petitioner once, but there is no indication that Forbes 
interviewed him directly. Instead, the article refers to a quotation that had already appeared in another 
publication, stating that the Petitioner "told the South China Morning Post that tax authorities will 
especially be looking at outbound service payments." A 2020 article from Asian Investor includes 
comments from the Petitioner concerning the possible impact on U.S. investors of a newlypassed security 
law. Neither of these articles focuses on the Petitioner. We note that the Asian Investor article was 
published after the petition's filing date in 2019 and therefore could not establish eligibility as of the filing 
date required by 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
A 2018 article in Diplomat features an interview with the Petitioner, discussing infrastructure investment. 
The article provides the Petitioner's title and indicates that lis one of the world'sl I 
accounting fim1s," but does not refer to the Petitioner as a leading or acclaimed figure in his field or state 
that he was selected for the interview based on acclaim or recognition. 
The three newly submitted articles identify the Petitioner as a source of information and opinions in his 
area of expertise, but the Petitioner has not shown that these articles demonstrate national or international 
acclaim or recognition at the top of his field. 
Discussed separately from the above articles, the Petitioner submits two articles relating to I I 
provision oflegal services in I and elsewhere in China. One of the articles quotes the Petitioner 
at some length in his capacity as the senior international advisor for the firm in China; the other article 
mentions him more briefly regarding the establishment of the firm inl I 
The Petitioner also submits a press release from I own website, indicating that the Petitioner 
"was invited to speak on a private wealth panel" at a government-organized event in May 2021. The 
Petitioner does not establish that this event attracted media attention outside! lown promotional 
materials. Also, the event occurred two yearsafterthepetition'sMay 2019filingdate and therefore could 
not establish eligibility as of the filing date, even if the Petitioner had submitted evidence of the 
significance of the event. This invitation is one of several pieces of evidence that deals with the 
Petitioner's high-ranking position atl I This high rank satisfies the threshold criterion at 
8 C.F .R. § 2 04 .5(h X3)(viii), as a leading role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation. But 
the Petitioner has not shown that this high rank has translated to individual recognition and acclaim for 
himself.3 
In addition to articles mentioning the Petitioner, the record also contains articles written by the Petitioner. 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we acknowledged the Petitioner's authorship of 
scholarly articles, but determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the articles "set him apart from 
his co-authors and others" in the field who also publish scholarly articles. We also observed that the 
Petitioner had not established the "influence or reach" of the publications that carried the articles. We 
concluded, as a result, that "the Petitioner's published work does not rise to [the] level" of "extensive 
documentation ofrecognition in [his] field." 
3 The distinction is of particular significance because the Petitioner does not intend to work directly forl I in the 
United States. Rather, he stated that he intends "to set up a boutique tax consulting firm" for certain clients with business 
interests in the United States and China, and "may continue to be associated with I lin a consulting relationship." 
5 
On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence to establish that some of the publications that have carried his 
articles have significant circulation and readership. These materials, however, do not address the larger 
question how the articles "set [the Petitioner] apart from his co-authors and others" who have published 
such articles in the field. 
We note that circulation figures factor into initial consideration of scholarly articles as a threshold criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. In our prior decision, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had satisfied that criterion. 
But evidence that satisfies the initial threshold criteria does not necessarily show sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner has not shown that the publishers invited him to write articles based 
on such acclaim, or that he derived acclaim from the reception of the articles upon their publication. 
The Petitioner addresses another threshold criterion that we had already granted, concerning high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner submits a 
statement fro land background evidence indicating that he earned a high salary from2013 
to 2020, whereas his earlier evidence covered a shorter span from 2018 to 2019. As with the circulation 
figures above, the new evidence is relevant to the proceeding, but it does not suffice to shift the overall 
calculus of the final merits determination in the Petitioner's favor and demonstrate sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner's new evidence submitted does not consistently show a level of 
recognition outside of I that reaches the level of sustained national and international acclaim. 
Because the newly submitted evidence does not establish eligibility, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that the prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, and was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In 
the present motion, the Petitioner identifies only one claimed error. 
In our dismissal notice, we noted the Petitioner's "long-time service with the Young Men's Christian 
Association of in several roles, most recently as its Chairman of the Board and 
President," but we observed that "the Petitioner does not suggest or establish that this work has brought 
him acclaim in the international tax community, or that any recognition for this work extends beyond the 
I On motion, the Petitioner states that "requiring Petitioner's leading role to extend beyond 
thel I is overreach, and thus, and incorrect application oflaw." The Petitioner states that the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) "only requires evidence that Petitioner has performed a leading 
role in an organization with a distinguished reputation, and nothing more. It is not an oversight that 'in 
the field' is not written into this criterion when all 9 other criteria contain a 'field' limitation." The 
Petitioner therefore asserts that we "impose[d an] additional evidentiary requirement" that the leading 
role relate to the Petitioner's field. 
We emphasize that, in the denial notice, the Director cited the Petitioner's position atl I and 
granted that the Petitioner had met the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and we agreed in our 
dismissal notice. Therefore, we imposed no additional evidentiary requirement within the context of that 
regulatory criterion. 
6 
But the final merits determination is not an aggregation of the threshold regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Rather, as explained above, a final merits determination rests on consideration of the 
record as a whole. In the context of a final merits determination, we can consider factors outside the 
confines of the ten threshold criteria. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1151, which recognizes that issues that 
"are not relevant to the antecedent procedural question" of the threshold criteria "might be relevant to the 
final merits determination of whether a petitioner is at the very top of his or her field of endeavor." When 
considering whether the Petitioner is at the very top of his field of endeavor, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), we cannot properly detemnne the weight to attribute to the Petitioner's activities outside 
that field when the Petitioner has not established their relevance. 
In our dismissal notice, we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his leadingroleat._l ___ 
"has brought him acclaim in the international tax community." The Petitioner, on motion, has not 
overcome or even disputed this conclusion. The burden is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility for the 
benefit he seeks, and to establish the relevance of the evidence submitted. The Petitioner has not 
explained how a leadership position atl I relates to sustained national or international acclaim 
in the field of tax accounting. 
The Petitioner has not identified any error oflaw or policy in our appellate decision, or established that 
the appellate decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, th emotion 
does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and we must dismiss the motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23101218 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior life science product consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she qualifies 
for the requested classification . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed by a "Fortune 500" corporation as a senior life science product consultant. 
She asserts that she has "created two original solutions of major significance" to the life sciences 
industry and intends to continue her work in the industry by focusing on "the development of 
innovative solutions to support pharmaceutical drug and medical device[] development." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially submitted evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies two of the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to membership in associations, original contributions of major significance 
to her field, and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished 
reputations. The Petitioner has not pursued her initial stance that she meets the criterion relating to 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), nor does she contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address it in our decision. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
As it relates to her roles, the Petitioner asserts that she has performed in both a leading and a critical 
role for her employer and thus meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). She points to letters 
from her employer and its clients, such as one provided by I a client partner director for 
her employer, who describes in detail the nature of her role as a senior life sciences product consultant, 
noting that she "leads the entire product life cycle from ideation, screening, product definition, 
research, prototyping, design and development. ... strategy, roadmap, go-to-market strategy, 
commercialization, and roll out." Other writers, such as I I a principal architect and 
senior engagement partner for her employer, andl I the director of R&D information 
research for one of her employer's clients, similarly describe her leading role in her employer's product 
design, development, and implementation efforts. The Petitioner also provided copies of product 
design documentation and licensing contracts which list her as "product owner" for the products being 
designed, developed and licensed to her employer's clients. In addition, she submitted evidence about 
her employer, including a recent report from an industry research group (E-), which analyzed the 
performance of 23 digital service providers in the life sciences industry using "a framework that 
provides an objective, data-driven, and comparative assessment of such providers," which reflects that 
her employer is considered by E-to be an industry leader in providing such services. 
Considering the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the plain language 
evidentiary requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) to show that she has performed 
in a leading or a critical role for her employer, and that that her employer has a distinguished reputation 
within her industry. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirement for the requested 
classification. We therefore need not consider whether she also meets additional criteria. Rather, the 
totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the Director in his decision or newly 
submitted on appeal, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether it shows that 
the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in her field of endeavor and is one of the 
small percentage individuals at the top of that field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 Since the Director's decision did not 
include such a determination, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the record and 
determine whether the Petitioner established her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability at 
the time of filing of the petition. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of 
this case on remand. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2023 In Re: 28803298 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and we dismissed the subsequent 
appeal, concluding that the record did not establish the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary 
requirements through evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 
of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reconsider to instances where the 
applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, an applicant must 
not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form 
I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). The 
issue before us is whether the Petitioner established that our decision to dismiss the prior appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior decision 
by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's 
claims on motion. 
Although the Petitioner asserted that he meets four of the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
determined he established eligibility under only two criteria. Our prior decision explained that he had 
not established eligibility under the criteria related to membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements of their members and published material about the Petitioner in major 
media. On motion, the Petitioner contends that we erred in our analysis and determination under these 
two criteria. 
A. Membership 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of its 
members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), we explained the Petitioner had not established that LIDOM 
and MLB require outstanding achievements of its members; that the Petitioner individually, as 
opposed to his team, is a member of the associations; or that recognized experts in the field judged the 
Petitioner's achievements. 
The Petitioner provided information on how LIDOM and MLB select teams for membership, but this 
does not establish that LIDOM or MLB selected the Petitioner for membership.1 Moreover, the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate how the team's managers and operation staff specifically 
selected the Petitioner as a player, which of his achievements they considered, or how the 
achievements were determined to be outstanding. On motion, Counsel states that '·although neither 
the MLB's, nor the LIDOM's bylaws specify the qualifications of their reviewers, each requires 
outstanding achievements of its members which are judged by experts." As we explained in our prior 
decision, it is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate every element of a given criterion. Counsel's 
unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 l&N Dec. 49, 51 
(BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
The Petitioner emphasizes, "the most outstanding players can enter the annual draft" for the teams that 
comprise LIDOM and that these players "must have a performance that stands out above the rest. 
They must demonstrate extraordinary talent and discipline." The Petitioner appears to suggest that 
the term "outstanding player" means that a player has outstanding achievements or that "standing out 
above the rest" and having "extraordinary talent and discipline" substantiates a finding of outstanding 
achievement. However, we conclude that these descriptions are too nebulous to determine what the 
selection requirements are for players generally or for the Petitioner specifically. We find no error in 
our prior determination that the evidence does not demonstrate the selection requirements for the 
players on the Petitioner's team or how the requirements constitute "outstanding achievements." 
Our prior decision distinguished between a team's membership in the MLB and an individual player's 
membership in the MLB. We further explained the record did not demonstrate that being a member 
of the Petitioner's team required outstanding achievements, but rather, skills and discipline. On 
1 As our decision states, the team's managers and operation staff selected the Petitioner to be a pait oftheir team. 
2 
motion, the Petitioner refers our attention to the portion o~ Iletter that states, "[o]nly 
those who can show outstanding achievements can be a member of an MLB team." The Petitioner 
contends that this language establishes his eligibility under this criterion and that we erred in not 
considering it in our prior decision. However, merely repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fed in Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. V. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). While we acknowledge I lwords, simply stating that players have outstanding 
achievements is not sufficient to establish which ofthe Petitioner's achievements were considered and 
how they were determined to be outstanding such that it establishes his eligibility under this criterion. 
B. Published Material 
Regarding published material about the Petitioner in major media under criterion 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), our decision explained that many of the submitted articles do not include the author 
or date of the material, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. On motion, the 
Petitioner asserts that editorial boards or groups of staff writers often author the material and that 
simply because an article lacks a specific author name, does not mean the article is unsigned. 
Specifically, the Petitioner points out that when an article expresses the opinion of multiple writers or 
the media outlet as a whole, such articles may be signed with only the name of the media or as 
"editorial." We acknowledge the nature of collective opinions and collaborative writing; however, 
under the regulation, providing the author and the date is not optional. Furthermore, the Petitioner did 
not provide infonnation about who among the media outlets' staff wrote the submitted articles such 
that we could determine how they would be considered authored articles. For instance, the materials 
from El Nacional (5/30/21), Diario Libre (5/28/21) and Almedio.net (5/30/21) contain no author or 
reference to editorial or staff writers, nor does the record contain sufficient information about any 
specific writers working for these media outlets. 
The Petitioner contends that our prior decision did not sufficiently consider some of the published 
materials that contain all of the regulatory elements. The Petitioner references the El Dia article byI I dated I 12022. However, our prior decision specifically referenced this 
article and explained that it is not about the Petitioner. Therefore, as explained, this article does not 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this requirement. 
The Petitioner provided numerous Twitter screenshots as examples of material pub I ished about the 
Petitioner and containing all regulatory elements. Some of the tweet screenshots contain dates, while 
others do not. Most of the tweets do not contain the name of the author, but rather only the account 
under which they were posted. As such, it is not apparent how these exam les meet all elements of 
the re ulator criteria. For man Twitter accounts such as 
,_____________________________ __. the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence to establish how they constitute major media.2 In addition and as we 
2 We acknowledge the Petitioner asserts Twitter is the major medium in which the materials are published; however, 
3 
previously explained, the tweets mention the Petitioner, but the material, which is one to three 
sentences in length, is about the team or its performance. In many cases, the tweets originate from a 
baseball team's Twitter account, which further reinforces the notion that a tweet's mention of the 
Petitioner is a detail incidental to the team or its performance as awhole. 
Regarding the YouTube videos, the Petitioner asserts that each contains a date, such as "l year ago," 
"7 months ago," and "five years ago;" however, this only provides a reference point to when a viewer 
navigated to the video to print a screenshot of it in relation to when a user posted the video. We do 
not consider this time reference to be a date. Further, we do not know what the videos are about 
because we do not have the transcripts for any of them. Therefore, the YouTube videos do not establish 
eligibility under this criterion.3 We find no error in our prior determination that still images, 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's appearances amount to 
published material about him, relating to his work. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law 
or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, 
the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
Twitter appears more akin to the format in which the material is captured, e.g. book, magazine, newspaper, television, 
radio, podcast, social network, blog spot, etc., particularly as the self-created Twitter accounts and their users disseminate 
the information to the public rather than the corporation itself, Twitter, Inc. or X Corp., posting or preapproving the content. 
3 The Petitioner contends that neither the regulations nor the policy manual requires transcripts of the videos; however, he 
has not established how screenshots of videos without transcripts have any probative value under this criterion. While a 
transcript is not a regulatory requirement, the regulation states, "evidence shall include ... any necessary translation 
(emphasis added). 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12011221 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that, 
although the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, it did not establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is an individual in that small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us 
on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed as al I Postdoctoral Fellow atl I University where he conducts 
research on the synthesis o~ ~ I materials for next-eneration l"------'---,------' I ~evices. He received his doctorate degree in applied physics from~---~University 
in 2018. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three criteria and the Director concluded 
that he satisfied all three, relating to judging the work of others, original contributions of major 
significance in his field, and authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi). 
Because the Petitioner met three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b){l){A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision reflects that he did not consider all the 
evidence together in its totality in determining whether the Petitioner is eligible for the benefit sought. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director repeatedly disregarded favorable evidence of his 
accomplishments and did not examine each piece of evidence for its relevance, probative value and 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 
credibility. We agree with that assertion as the final merits determination section of the decision 
contains few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director determined 
that the Petitioner satisfied the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), evidence 
related to the Petitioner's contributions in his field is not mentioned or weighed in the final merits 
discussion. This evidence included multiple expert opinion letters, evidence of awards the Petitioner 
won for his research, copies of research and review articles that cite his research, media coverage of 
his publications and other relevant documentation. 
In referencing the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the decision includes only a general 
reference to the Petitioner's peer review experience, noting that he did not establish that his activities 
in this regard exceed those of other researchers in his field. However the Director did not address the 
Petitioner's specific claims and evidence showing how his peer review activities compare to others in 
the field, both in terms of the number of journals for which he has served as a reviewer, and the total 
number of reviews he has conducted. The Director also emphasized that the Petitioner's peer review 
experience could not demonstrate "sustained acclaim" because most of his activities had taken place 
between 2016 and 2019. The Petitioner, as noted, is a postdoctoral fellow who completed his Ph.D. 
in 2018. There is no definitive timeframe on what constitutes "sustained," and a petitioner may be 
early in his or her career and still show sustained acclaim.2 
Finally, in evaluating evidence of the Petitioner's scholarly articles, the Director excluded from 
consideration all publications except for those in which he was listed as the first author but stated no 
basis for doing so. The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted objective evidence relating to his 
publication rates and his citation history in comparison to others active during the same time period, 
as well as information regarding the impact factors of journals in which he was published. The 
Director did not discuss any of this relevant evidence but instead determined that the Petitioner's 
citation history did not compare favorably to that of two of the experts who had provided reference 
letters on his behalf, both senior professors with decades of experience. It was not appropriate for the 
Director to limit his final merits review of this criterion to an aggregate comparison of the Petitioner's 
publication record to that of his referees. 
Because the Director disregarded much of the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits determination, 
the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he qualifies as 
an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. An officer must fully 
explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(a)(1)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must 
fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to 
challenge the determination on appeal). 
At this time, we take no position as to the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. 
Rather, we remand the matter for the Director to review the record in light of the decision's 
deficiencies as outlined above and enter a new decision. As the Director already determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record in evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
2 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 14. 
3 
his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12091215 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the field of artificial intelligence technology , seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for the requested 
classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur in the field of artificial intelligence technology who currently serves 
as the founder, inventor, and CEO of I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met at least five criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards of prizes; 
I (iii), Published materials in major media; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner requested the consideration of comparable evidence regarding his speaking 
engagements and financial success under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (x), which 
relate, respectively, to display of work at artistic exhibitions and showcases, and to commercial success 
in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two criteria relating to published materials and leading 
or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored probative evidence 
establishing that he meets the criteria related to original contributions, nationally recognized awards, 
and high salary or other significantly high remuneration. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied an additional criterion. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of an individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The evidence 
demonstrates that, as co-founder ofl I, the Petitioner was listed as the inventor on at least 
three issued patents related to the company's proprietary.__ ____________ ___. 
technology, thus establishing thl original
1ity of his contributions. The Petitioner also provided 
evidence of awards received by for its application of theO technology, and several 
testimonial letters that discussed this proprietary technology, its commercialization, and its subsequent 
impact on the use of artificial intelligence and big data in thel I industry. 
I I a senior scientist and manager at NASA's 
I I notes that the Petitioner'sOtechnolo~g-y-·-·w_a_s_t-he_v_e_ry-fi-rs-t-to-al-lo_w__, 
I ~ompanies and markets to provide better user experiences as well as understand! I I ~ I I lead marketing for robotics atl O lnotes that the 
Petitioner's technology "pushed I I above its competitors to the point tha~ I replaced I !technology as the market standard for the U.K.I t indust "and notes that his 
patents have been quoted by "other patents that belon to com anies like 
I I Head of h Italian Trade Agenr---·::~~:~~;~~:~~~~~~:~~~~_=--em-ph_a_s-iz-es_t_h__.at 
the Petitioner "realize could also hel the nderstand what content is being watched 
'-----;::::::====:::::z---0----------.,---------------------' and "revolutionized 
th~ I industry by making data acquisition more efficient than traditional I I .-I ---'---.-I m-et-h-od-s.__," 
I I vice President of Engineering tori I which acquired I I in 2018, 
explains that the Petitioner's technology "was especially groundbreaking because it assessed! I I exposure and consumption immediately, through.__ ___________ ___. He 
~states that the technology "revolutionized the field because the technology was not tied to a single 
L__Jnanufacturer or .___ _____ __,corporation" and notes that the technology is currently 
deployed in the United States, United Kingdom and other European markets. Finally, he explains that 
the Petitioner's "patented I I tech h h n h I I 
field by providing critical insight into the value of on dilital media platforms." 
Although the Petitioner ultimately made the decision to sell.___ ___ __, to_ I the record 
also reflects that major industry players, including Apple and Amazon, had expressed interest in the 
acquisition of the technology. 
Based on th~nial evidence, patents, and other independent evidence regarding the industry's 
reception ofL___Js technology, the Petitioner has established the major significance of his original 
contributions and satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Because the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including 
evidence relating to the remaining claimed criteria, in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requ1s1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
3 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner's curriculum vitae reflects that since I I 2019, he has served as the founder, 
inventor, and CEO ofl I which has developed aj I platform able to accurately 
predict quarterly revenues of public companies usingl I From 2012 to 
2018, he served asl I co-founder, CEO, inventor, and major shareholder where he was 
responsible for building investor relations, product invention, and patent creation, and led the company 
from its initial startup through its acquisition byl ltor more than ten million dollars. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established both his leading role withl I and 
the company's distinguished reputation in the industry. For example, the record demonstrates that 
both I land the Petitioner, as its founder, received industry awards and recognition for the 
company's proprietary technology at thee=]Siemer Summit and South by Southwest I I 
industry conferences. The record reflects that both annual events receive coverage in national media 
outlets including Forbes and Yahoo Finance, garnering acclaim for the Petitioner.I I and the 
innovative technology he developed. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner and received mainstream media coverage in 
response to the companY,'s industr ra id growth, hi~h-profile partnerships 
with entities such as th_~----------.------.-- and[ I and its acquisition by I I For example, MarketWatch reported on s discovery tha~~--~lviewers were 
spending significantly more time watching,___ ____ ~than previously understood andl I 
presented these analytics at the National Association of Broadcasters show inl I The record 
establishes that this discovery also prompted a White House senior technology and economic policy 
advisor to contact the Petitioner for guidance on determining the market share of I I services 
,.__ __________ ~ in order to analyze the risk of a monopoly. 
I~ I ~as recognized by Inc. magazine as one of the fastest growing privately held 
companies in the United States in its Inc. 5000 list, from a field that includes millions of companies. 
The Petitioner also enjoyed acclaim from Italian magazine ReRubblica which published an article titled 
and included I I on its innovative! I _,__---,------,-------,----,--------,--....,.....,.---="""""' "companies that are changing the world." The Petitioner was also interviewed by Italian magazine 
Millionaire about I I tech~ts market opportunities, its most lucrative deals, and his 
opportunity to sell the company tol___J, after! platform had been used by I lin its I I products. 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
Although the Petitioner ultimately made the decision to sell I Ito I lin 2018, the 
record reflects that another ma·or indust la er, A le Inc., had expressed interest in the acquisition 
of the technology. Apple's discusses the impact ofl I 
platform and Apple's interest in that technology. In his letter.__ ___ __.states that he considers the 
Petitioner to be "part of a small group of entrepreneurs that have risen to the top of his field in I !analytics" based on both his achievements withl I and on innovative new 
technology he has developed for I I which has "attracted very significant level of 
interest from the senior management of several! I institutions." 
Other letters from experts speak to the Petitioner's reputation and acclaim in his field and are 
corroborated by the independent evidence related to his awards, media coverage, and the impact and 
commercial success of his atented technolo ies.l hates that the Petitioner was invited 
to serve as a mentor at~------------r--------.-~ University based on his reputation 
and acclaim in the field. He highlights "the story of~_~the company he founded and led for 
seven years and eventually sold," as "an exemplary success story that embodies the I I 
entrepreneurial myth narrative." I !further emphasizes that the Petitioner's "unique 
invention ... attracted important names in the field" and states t1at "[t]o t1is day, he is the leading 
figure on I ~ata consumption." I bf attests to the Petitioner's 
"reputation as a thought leader in the artificial intelligence entrepreneurial technology space," 
highlighting his mentorship of other entrepreneurs through organizations likel I University. ~ references the Petitioner's speaking engagements including keynote addresses atl I 
L___J and~ing that such engagements speak to his "reputation as a leading entrepreneur" 
in his field. c===]describes the Petitioner as "one of the most successful examples otl I 
entrepreneurship in the technology space." 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner has received recognition from experts and top companies 
in his industry, through industry awards and media, and through prestigious speaking and mentoring 
opportunities in his field. Based on the evidence discussed above and our review of the record in the 
aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence, 
sustained national acclaim and that he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he intends to 
continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8867558 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a maternal and child health specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements either through a one-time 
achievement or meeting the requirements of at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In addition, the Director found that the Petitioner had not established that she is coming to the United 
States to work in her area of expertise, and that her entry would not substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that she serves as the principal of thd bccupational (sometimes 
translated as "Vocational" in the record) Technical Training School (I I School"), and 
writes, teaches and participates in Chinese government initiatives to promote and provide information 
about breastfeeding. 1 She states that she intends to establish a similar education and training company 
devoted to maternal and child health in New Jersey. 
A. Translation of Foreign Language Material 
In his decision, the Director noted that a translation of foreign language evidence, specifically an 
article published in the Beijing Evening News onl 12013 that the Petitioner asserts is 
about her, "uses the term "prostitute" as a synonym for "prolactinist" in two instances," and goes on 
to state that this inconsistency casts doubt on the reliability of this evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that she is not responsible for the mistakes made by a third-party translator, and that despite 
these mistakes, the article as a whole is about the Petitioner and her work as a prolactinist. We agree 
that the errors in this translation referred to in the Director's decision do not materially affect the 
meaning of the article. However, after review, we note that this is not the only translation in the record 
which contains errors or discrepancies. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a reference letter froml I who states that he is a 
graduate ofl !Medical College. I I then goes on to describe the Petitioner's 
background and career accomplishments, stating that she "has been engaged in maternity, medical and 
scientific research for 40 years." He also lists several other positions and accomplishments, including I lofthe Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology o~ I Health Science Center, 
appointment as an expert of the I I Children's Fund, and serving on the boards of two 
medical journals. As the record does not include evidence of any of the positions and accomplishments 
listed, and the Petitioner could not have had forty years of medical and scientific experience Jiven her 
age at the time of filing, it is likely that this portion of the original letter describes I s career, 
1 The Petitioner's statements and evidence in the record use the terms "prolactinist" and "prolacer" to describe a 
breastfeeding consultant. 
2 
not the Petitioner's. We also note that is referred to as a professor in the Department of 
Obstetrics at ~-----~---~·Hospital in an article about a breastfeeding knowledge and 
skills competition posted on the hospital's website on August 13, 2018. However, the translation of 
his letter clearly attributes these accomplishments to the Petitioner, reflecting either unsupported 
claims in the content of the original letter or, more likely, an erroneous translation. 
Another example of erroneous translations was completed by a different translator than in the above 
examples. The Petitioner submitted three certificates which the translations indicate were issued to 
her by the "Education and Training Center of the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security." 
The translations identify these as "certification letters" for "Child EQ Instructor Post Training Project 
Cooperation," Senior Prolactin Post Training Project Cooperation," and "Maternal and Child Care 
Nurse Job Training Project Cooperation." The translations also indicate that all three certificates were 
signed on July 14, 2015 and refer to the "cooperation period" as being from July 20, 2015 to July 19, 
2017. However, the dates on the original certificates can be easily understood as they are written 
numerically, and none match the dates shown on the translations. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) states that any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a foll English language translation. The translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. Id. Here, the required translators' certifications have been 
submitted along with the foreign language material, but the above examples reveal a pattern of 
inaccuracy in the English translations. Although each of these examples can individually be explained 
as simple error, together they cast significant doubt as to the reliability of all of the translations in the 
record. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved 
material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other evidence 
submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. The examples given above are apparent 
without knowledge of Chinese language or writing, but they lead to questions about the existence of 
material translation errors that are less visible without that knowledge. Accordingly, while we note 
that the Petitioner has submitted a corrected translation of the Beijing Evening News article on appeal, 
we will consider the evidentiary value of all other translated material in the record to be significantly 
reduced. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her and her work, and her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. We will not disturb the Director's 
conclusions regarding these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
3 
reputation. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not 
establish that she meets the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they served in a 
qualifying role for an organization or establishment, and that the organization or establishment enjoys 
a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is ( or was) 
a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, 
leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A 
supporting role may be considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is ( or was) 
important in that way. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather their performance in the role 
that determines whether it is ( or was) critical. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based upon her roles with two organizations: I I School and thd b. Regarding her position 
with I I she submitted a certificate indicating that she was appointed asl lof the 
organization's Maternal and Child Health and Education Committee (MCHEC) on July 18, 2018 for 
a period of four years. An organizational chart submitted with this certificate in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) shows the Petitioner as the leader of this committee, with three 
unnamed deputy directors reporting to her. Those deputy directors in tum lead several departments of 
unknown staffing levels, including an "International Breastfeeding Department" and a "Matemal­
Child Nursing Department," as well as a "Baby Swimming Department" and an "Infant Sports and 
Health Department." The evidence also includes a letter with the seal of the committee, describing 
her duties in managing the various departments listed on the organizational chart. However, as noted 
by the Director, this letter is not signed by an individual having higher authority within! I and so 
its authenticity cannot be verified. Since neither the organizational chart nor the letter indicate that 
the Petitioner reports to a higher authority within the committee, this letter can be considered to have 
been composed and stamped by her, and thus to have limited evidentiary value. 
More importantly, the record includes evidence which contradicts the Petitioner's claim to the leading 
role for this committee. An article which was posted on a website labelled as the "China Maternal and 
Child Professional Network" discusses a ceremony and lecture inl 12018 which was co-hosted 
by the MCHEC and other organizations. This article includes a long list of attendees, including the 
Petitioner, who is identified as thel I of Maternal and Child Health Special Fund of the 
China Scholarship Foundation. 3 Another individual,! I, is named as th~I Inf 
2 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's negative finding regarding four other evidentiary criteria (8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (vi) on appeal, nor does she renew her claim to comparable evidence under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). We therefore consider these issues to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Atf)J Gen, 401 F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 This organization is identified by several different names in the record, including the China Student Health Development 
4 
the MCHEC, a position which does not appear in the organizational chart submitted by the Petitioner. 
This article does not identify any role for the Petitioner with the MCHEC one month after she is 
claimed to have been appointed as its leader, and names another individual as occupying a leadership 
position for the committee. 
Another article, from the website of an organization with a similar name, the China Maternal and Child 
Health Association, contains similar information regarding a meeting held to establish the MCHEC in 
c=J2018. This article identifies the Petitioner as the .__ _____ ____,of the Management 
Committee of the China Student Health Development Foundation, but it does not indicate that she has 
any role with the MCHEC. In additionJ I is named as the I lof the foundation, and a 
photograph and caption shows him receiving a plaque on behalf of the MCHEC. 
As noted above regarding the inconsistencies in the English translations in the record, it is the 
Petitioner's burden to resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. Here, these two articles, in addition to the 
previously mentioned article from the website of.__ _________ __.Hospital which also fails 
to mention her claimed role with the MCHEC, directly contradict the Petitioner's claims and other 
evidence in the record. We therefore find that she has not established that she plays a leading or critical 
role for the MCHEC, or forl loverall. 
Regarding her role as a founder and principal a~ !School, the Petitioner asserts on appeal 
that the Director erred in discounting the letter from the school's human resources manager. We agree 
that the Director's statement that "he or she will write whatever [the Petitioner] tells him or her to 
write" indicates that he failed to properly consider this evidence. The letter indicates that the Petitioner 
has served as vice principal or principal at the I I School since 2007 and provides an 
extensive list of duties that she performs in this role. However, we note that the "Private Non­
enterprise Unit Registration Certificate" submitted by the Petitioner lists only I I as a 
legal representative, and the Petitioner has not submitted other business documentation ( such as 
articles, minutes or bylaws) which confirms her leading role withl Jschool. In addition, 
a promotional brochure from the school lists the Petitioner's short biography along with others under 
the heading of "International Faculty," and does not otherwise indicate that she acts as the school's 
principal as opposed to only a faculty member. Further, the article appearing in Beijing Evening News 
states that "Before becoming a professional prolactin trainer, she was a trainer in a state-owned 
enterprise," and notes that she resigned from her work in 2010 and only gained certification to train 
other prolactinists two years later. This evidence is not consistent with her claimed performance in a 
leading or critical role atl I School since 2007, as indicated in the letter from the human 
resources manager. 
We note that another article ublished on the website of China Radio International on 
2018, is titled '----------------------------------~ [Petitioner]." However, it does not include quotations from the Petitioner, or a list of questions and 
answers, but instead consists of a detailed and glowing account of the Petitioner's career and the 
Foundation, the China Scholarship Development Foundation and the China Overseas Study Talent Development 
Foundation. However. on appeal the Petitioner does not base her claim to this criterion on a leading or critical for this 
organization, nor does she provide evidence in support of its reputation. 
5 
school's activity, repeatedly reminding the reader that she is the leader o~ !school. In 
other words, the content of this article is not consistent with its identification as an interview in the 
title. Also, although the author is given as "North Country Network" and an editor named, the article's 
tone is entirely self-promotional, and refers to the school as "we" in the fifth paragraph. As the true 
source of this material is questionable, it is insufficient to overcome the discrepancies listed above. 
In addition, the evidence does not establish that I I School has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner initiall submitted several certificates received by the school, including "20131 I 
issued b~ China's Health Research 
magazme. Also submitted were certificates showing awards for "2015 I I I' from the China Health Management Forum Committee, and in the same 
year, '~----------------,,,.......------------------~ from the 
National Medical Education Development Center. However, little information was provided in the 
record about these awards, and inconsistencies appear here as well. An article posted on the web 
portal finance.ifeng.com, which lists as its source "China Commercial Telecommunications" and its 
editor as "robot," indicates that the 2013 award was given to th~ I School at the 'c=J I I" It also states that despite the name of the award, it 
was the only training school awarded. However, a copy of the certificate which is included in this 
article is substantially different from what the Petitioner asserts is the same certificate elsewhere in the 
record. Therefore, due to the discrepancies in the certificate and the lack of information regarding the 
source of the article, this evidence does not show that the school enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Other evidence includes a webpage concerning the 2015 China Health Management Forum, where the 
evidence indicates thatl !School received the I t award 
mentioned above. While this document provides information about the forum and its focus on 
healthcare management, it does not mention any awards given at the event. In the absence of farther 
information about this certificate, why the school received it, and how many other certificates were 
awarded at this event, we do not find that this evidence establishes the school's distinguished 
reputation. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
6 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11853011 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician and researcher in the field of hematology oncology, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that she met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, 
of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petlt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician and researcher in the field of hematology oncology . She received her 
Bachelor of Medicine Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and her doctor of medicine in general medicine 
from --------------- University in I I India, in 2003 and 2008, 
respectively . She completed her residency training in internal medicine at thel !Medical 
Center in 2017. At the time of filing, she was employed as a research fellow in hematology oncology 
at thd I Cancer Institute I t. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging the work of others in her field and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that she has authored 
scholarly articles published in journals including Breast Cancer: Targets and Therapy, Clinical Case 
Reports, and Clinical Lymphoma, Myeloma & Leukemia . Although we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner authored scholarly articles in professional publications, we do not concur with the 
Director's finding relating to the judging criterion, discussed later. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also satisfies the requirements of the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance in her field. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in the 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria related 
to membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and leading or critical role for distinguished organizations at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that she does not meet these 
criteria or offer additional arguments. Therefore , we consider this issue to be abandoned . See Sepulveda v. US. Att'ey 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011 , 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 
(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to 
the AAO). 
2 
record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation , either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based upon her having been 
"selected to review for medical journals" and her teaching duties with thel I 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. For the reasons 
outlined below, the record does not reflect that the documentation submitted sufficiently demonstrates 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue wi11 be 
withdrawn . 
. ,...... ...... _.... ................ .......,......,....,'s participation in the peer review process, the Petitioner provided an email 
th i r f th · m 1 B , thanking her for agreeing to review 
..-----...-------"'T"" ........ --------' and reminding her to complete her 
review b 2019. Further, the Petitioner provided an email dated I 12019 from 
.---"'-l.. ___ ""T"""a_Juest editor for Seminars in Cancer Biolo , invitin her to review the 
manuscript '.__ ________________________________ _,'2 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. 3 Here, the aforementioned emails do not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner actually completed the reviews. 4 Instead, as indicated above, the emails reflect a 
confirmation of her agreement to conduct the article review and an invitation to conduct the manuscript 
review. Moreover, the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, 
performed those reviews. 
As it pertains to her teaching duties at the.__ ________ __. the record does not demonstrate 
sufficiently that the Petitioner's duties in this position constitute judgipg the work of others in the field. 
The Petitioner maintains that she "evaluates students in regard to their medical knowledge, skills 
involving patient history taking, ability to conduct physical examinations, and personal characteristics 
as it relates to patient care." As discussed previously, this criterion requires evidence that the Petitioner 
has served as "a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought." Students in medical school are not in the Petitioner's field of specialization 
or an allied field; they are studying to enter the field. Further, the Petitioner did not present any 
corroborating documentation showing how many or which students she evaluated. Without further 
documentation, her evidence regarding her teaching duties is inadequate to satisfy this criterion. 5 
2 We note that these emails relate to events occurring after the filing of the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through 
adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8. 
4 Id. (proving an example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien 
to do the review, accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the reyjew) 
5 Similarly , the Petitioner also provided an email dated April 2019 froml I the program coordinator for 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the 
Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)( v) 
The Petitioner maintains that she has made several original contributions of major significance in her 
field as evidenced by her published research, citation record, and letters from experts in the field. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For example, a petitioner may show that 
her contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of expert opinion letters 
discussing her research, copies of her published articles along with information regarding the journals 
in which she was published, and evidence that she has been cited by other researchers in their own 
published work. However, the Director determined that the evidence did not substantiate the 
Petitioner's claim that she had made original scientific contributions of major significance. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. 
First, the Petitioner emphasizes that she has authored 12 articles in professional journals. As one type 
of evidence of the impact of her work, she provided a January 2020 Google Scholar citation history 
reflecting 11 cumulative citations to those articles, authored by her between 2016 and 2019. 
Specifically, the record shows that her three highest cited articles received 7 (Breast Cancer: Targets 
and Therapy), 3 (Clinical Case Reports), and 1 (Clinical Lymphoma, Myeloma & Leukemia) citations, 
respectively . 7 While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field 
has noticed her work, she has not established that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a 
level of interest in her field commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the field." 8 
The Petitioner argues that since her articles have been published only in the past "two" years, "pure 
reliance on citations is flawed when analyzing the influence of one's work, and other factors should 
be taken into consideration such as the amount of times [the Petitioner 's] work has been viewed or 
downloaded .... the reputable medical journals that have published [the Petitioner 's] work, as well 
as attestations from others in the field .... " In support, she refers to an article previously submitted 
entitled "Citation analysis may severely underestimate the impact of clinical research as compared to 
the.__ _____________ ..--__________ __. confirming that the Petitioner would 
participate in the program as mentor for student...._ ____ __,for the mentoring term beginning June 2019. However , 
the Petitioner did not provide any documentary evidence establishing that she actually participated in the program as a 
mentor. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
7 The Petitioner 's remaining 9 publications did not receive any citations. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual 's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor) . 
4 
basic research." Although this article discusses the limitations of popular bibliometric indicators , such 
as the h-index and the impact factor, and concludes that those indicators are not reliable in making 
"accurate between-field comparisons," it does not undermine the value of citations as one of the tools 
for assessing clinical research performance . For example, the article states that "[ c ]itation analysis is 
widely used in the assessment ofresearch performanc e in the medical sciences." 
In addition, the Petitioner emphasizes that her work has been published in highly reputable national 
journals "that boast low acceptance rates and high impact factors." However, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of her articles in highly ranked journals establishes that the field 
considers her research to be an original contribution of major significance . Moreover , a publication 
that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does 
not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on the field or that every article published in 
a highly ranked j oumal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F .3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, 
the Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone 
demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided examples of citations to her work by other researchers . A review of those 
articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research or dem h i h 
widel im acted the field. For instance the Petitioner rovided an article entitled 
'---------------~------------------ " (Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgery), in which the authors cited to her article published in Breast Cancer: Targets 
and Therapy. 9 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work 
from the other cited papers; rather, the authors cited her article in support of a statement that 
'The 
article, the stated purpose of which is "to describe the current understanding of the.__ _____ ___. 
anc!l0 I to date," discusses more than 35 source articles 
in similar terms; there is no special emphasis on the Petitioner's work relative to the hundreds of 
researchers who contributed to the other cited articles. This article and others like it acknowledge the 
Petitioner's contributions to the advancement of what appears to be an active area ofresearch but are 
not indications that her work has substantially influenced the field or otherwise rises to the level of an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner rovided documentation showing that she was selected for participation in 
th,___.,..._--.----.----------____. and al I workshop jointly sponsored by 
th _,__ _ _.and.....__ .... However , this evidence relates to events occurring after the filing of the petition. 
As discussed previously , the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, we note that the Petitioner's proffered fellowship is intended to 
provide specialized research experience and training in her field of endeavor, while thd I 
workshop offers clinical fellows and junior faculty clinical researchers "an introduction to [thd ], 
clinical trial design, oncology drug regulatory science, and the drug/device approval process." The 
Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate how receiving an offer of funding for one's academic 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
training or participating in a workshop intended for "trainees and early career oncologists" seeking to 
further their training and experience is indicative of or consistent with a completed contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
Further, although the Petitioner provided expert opinion letters praising her research contributions, the 
authors, as discussed below, do not provide specific examples of original contributions that are 
indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings 
and indicate their publications in journals. Although they reflect the novelty of the projects on which 
she worked, they do not show how her research and findings have been considered of such importance 
and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
Within the Petitioner's initial submission, she provided a letter from I I the 
program director of hematology/oncology fellowships at the I 
indicates she has worked with the Petitioner since 2017 and praises her "clinical acumen and her 
leadership in handling complex cases." She notes that the Petitioner's recent research is aimed at 
repurposing the FDA-approved drug in patients suffering from the 
blood cancer ___________________ ~ She also describes some of the 
Petitioner's work on clinical research trials involving treatment options for adults with I I ___________ .. , in which the Petitioner's team developed a chemotherapy regimen for 
....,.... ....... ........,.......,_..,_......_......._ ........... ·'+'gnosis of I I which was associated with an encouraging 
i------,.., ___ --,1 rate and manageable I I Regarding the Petitioner's clinical skills, 
......--,___....1 provides an example of a case in which the Petitioner's ability to identify al I 
,..____, for a biopsy saved the patient from a highly interventional procedure. She further indicates that 
the Petitioner's teaching responsibilities include teaching medical students the "necessary clinical and 
diagnostic skills" and instructing on hematological malignancies in a "Blood" course. 
________ lof the ___________ Cancer Center, who indicates that he bases 
his knowledge of the Petitioner "on a review of her credentials and through my familiarity with her 
stellar reputation as a researcher," indicates the Petitioner's clinical practice requires her "to remain 
updated and knowledgeable with regards to chemotherapy regimens." As a researcher, he notes that 
the Petitioner "has published full-length articles and case reports in premier medical journals" and has 
presented her research "at premier scientific meetings." He highlights the findin s of the Petitioner's 
second-hi hest cited article, ublished in Clinical Case Re arts, that the dru ______________________________ ____, He characterizes 
the Petitioner as possessing superior clinical expertise and leadership in the field as an investigative 
researcher. We note, however, thatl ts CV indicates that he is an expert in the field 
of cardiology and the treatment of cardiovascular disease; he is not a recognized expert in the 
Petitioner's field of hematology /oncology. 
[ I an assistant professor of hematology and oncology at the University of I !Medical School who indicates he is familiar with the Petitioner's work through a review of 
her CV, asserts that "during the course of her relatively young career" the Petitioner has published 
"findings of major significance." He states that the Petitioner 's original research works have been 
"read in excess of 300 times by researchers located at different institutions across the globe." D 
I I discusses the findings of the Petitioner's highest-cited article. published in Breast Cancer: 
Targets and Therapy, that breast cancer in patients withl I 
6 
b I He described the article as a "crucial finding as people with 
are certain to develop cancers and early intervention is life-saving." He describes her as an 
"outstanding" and "remarkable" clinical researcher" who "has produced innovative research findings 
over a wide range of important topics." 
I I who worked with the Petitioner for several years during her residency at the I I Medical Center, states that the Petitioner's "innovative" research in the field has been 
introduced at many premier national conferences and published in prominent medical journals, and 
"has since accumulated numerous reads." He further asserts that the Petitioner's clinical research 
work regarding cancer patients "is broad in spectrum, translating novel findings and treatments 
relating to cancer in the laboratory into clinical practice," and that her work "broadens the medical 
community's knowledge regarding novel treatment options." 
.__ ______ _.I a radiation oncologist at the .__ _________ ____. Cancer Center, who 
indicates her expert opinion was based upon review of the Petitioner's CV, states "it should be obvious 
simply based on her numerous publications and accompanying read counts that [the Petitioner] has made 
key strides as a researcher." However, the record does not contain evidence corroborating her statement, 
or those o~ I and I I regarding the significance of the number of "reads" 
or "read counts" for the Petitioner's online papers. Although the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
www.researchgate.net dated July 2019, showing the Petitioner's profile page and indicating that her 8 
research items have received 408 reads and 2 citations, the record does not contain evidence to give 
context to their statements or allow comparison with the work of others in the Petitioner's field. In 
addition, although others in the field may have read the Petitioner's articles, there is no documentary 
evidence showing that her articles have been extensively cited by independent researchers or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director request for qcideuce sbe oreseuted syveral additional 
letters from colleagues at thel I [ J identifies as a 
"significant contribution" the Petitioner's review article titled .__ ___________ ....,,..... I I' for which he is the senior author. He indicates the 
article "focuses on the apparent and evolving potential of.__ ______________ __. I lwith emphasis onl l highlighting both success and failure with this 
experimental approach in the clinic, and identifying rationally based combinatorial approaches." The 
record reflects, however, that the Petitioner's review article in this area was published by Blood 
Reviews id 12019, subsequent to the filing of the petition in July 2019. As mentioned 
previously, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). In addition.I I letter does not provide sufficient specificity regarding 
how the article's research findings rise to the level of an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. 
I I asserts that the Petitioner's review article titled I I t ublished in Clinical._L_y_m_ip_h_o_m_a_ ,_M_y_e_l_o_m_a .... 
& Leukemia, "is novel and original," as it discusses the dia nostic methods, 
and novel targeted therapies, and "sheds light on a rarely studied disease." provides 
that the Petitioner's article titled 1 I 
7 
published in Clinical Lymphoma, Myeloma & Leukemia, produced "truly groundbreaking research" 
in havin "discussed thJ 1 1 I of the heterogeneous molecular fingerprint of 
~----.---------.r---~ focusing on emerging targeted therapies, specifically! I 
an ~-----~pathways." Although he indicates that he has "referred to this important research 
article many times in my own practice" he does not address whether the Petitioner's findings have 
been utilized by other practitioners or researchers in the field, and if so, the extent of their application. 
In addition, several reference letters provide that the Petitioner has been invited to present her findings 
at professional conferences. The letters, however, do not explain how her presentation and conference 
activities have impacted or influenced the field as a whole. Participation in a conference demonstrates 
that her findings were shared with others, but being selected to present, without more, is not indicative 
of the major significance of her contributions. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major significance." Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 
1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The letters considered above primarily contain broad attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's 
clinical and research studies without providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to 
a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.10 
Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Without 
additional detail explaining her accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, 
the letters discussed above do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact 
in her field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. Simply stating that the 
Petitioner's work is "important", "novel", "crucial", or "groundbreaking" is not sufficient. The expert 
opinion evidence reviewed in its totality does not establish how the Petitioner has already made a 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. 
8 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8865906 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete and coach in the disciplines of taekwondo, muay thai, and 
hapkido. He provided evidence indicating that he intends to continue serving as a martial arts coach 
or trainer in the United States. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized as one of the top awards in the 
field. 
The Petitioner asserts that the gold medal he received as a member ofthel I team at theD 
International Taekwondo Federation (ITF)I I Championship inl I qualifies as a major, 
internationally recognized award. 1 The evidence of this award includes a photograph of a gold medal 
1 We take administrative notice that World Taekwondo, previously known as the World Taekwondo Federation (WTF), is 
recognized by the International Olympic Committee as "the worldwide legitimate governing body of the sport" and that 
taekwondo has been an official medal spo11 in the Olympic Games since 2000. See https://www.olympic.org/taekwondo, 
accessed on October 10, 2020. 
2 
from the event, a certificate identifying the national team ofl I as first place winners in the 
'----~-----~--' division, and pages from the website of the ITF confirming the results of 
this event. Although none of these items name the Petitioner, a letter from the State Agency for 
Tourism and Sport of thq I dated December 23, 1999, confirms that he was a member 
of this winning team and was subsequently conferred the title of"Master of Sport, International Class." 
In his decision, the Director noted that neither the medal nor the certificate name the Petitioner as the 
winner of this award. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "it is common for athletic awards not to 
include the names," and points to "extensive affidavits" which list awards received by the Petitioner. 
However, both the certificate and the results from the website of the ITF show that it was the team 
fro~ I which received the award, and neither item lists the names of the members of that 
team. Although the evidence shows that the Petitioner was a member of the awarded team, this gold 
medal was awarded by the ITF to recognize the achievement of the team as a whole, as opposed to 
other awards listed on the web page which were awarded for individual achievements. We therefore 
agree with the Director and find that the evidence does not establish that this award was granted in 
recognition of the Petitioner's achievements. 
In addition, even ifwe were to consider the award to have been granted to the Petitioner in recognition 
of his achievements, he has not established that it is a major, internationally recognized award. We 
note that the Petitioner did not initially claim that this award qualifies as such, but did so when 
responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). In that response, he referenced 
"documentation previously submitted" as well as new evidence taken from the website of the ITF. 
That website evidence provides a history of the federation and a list of world championship 
tournaments it has held, but does not establish that the award for the team .__ _____ ___, 
competition, or any of the other awards granted at those tournaments, receives the same level of 
international recognition as the awards mentioned above. While the record demonstrates that the 
team's success at this tournament was reported in a city weekly paper i~ I, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the tournament and its results were covered in top international media, or that the 
award is commonly known in the general public. For all of these reasons, we find that he has not 
established that the first place team award earned at the DITFI !championship qualifies as a 
major, internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets six of these criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that while the Petitioner has satisfied the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria, he has not 
established that he has garnered sustained national or international acclaim as a martial arts athlete and 
coach, and is not among the small percentage at the top of the field of martial arts. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
3 
As discussed above, the first place award given to the I !national team at theCJITF ._I _ ____. 
Championship does not recognize the Petitioner, nor does the evidence show that it was received by 
him. However, the record includes evidence of other prizes or awards which he did personally receive. 
These include several he earned for his participation as a martial arts athlete, such as placing in the 
national taekwondo championships i~ I in 1999, 2002, 2005 and 2006, and in the country's 
muay thai championships in 2005, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2014. As these were demonstrated to 
be top events in the field at the national level, they meet the plain language of this criterion. The 
Petitioner also submitted evidence of placings in other types of martial arts competitions, including 
hapkido, but the record does not include evidence showing that these were top national or international 
awards, or that the Petitioner garnered national or international recognition as a martial artist due to 
these placings. 
In addition, the record includes certificates for two awards the Petitioner received as a coach or trainer 
in taekwondo. Both certificates indicate that he received them "for outstandin] training of athletes" 
at the 2013 and 2016 editions of the Open Championship of the I in Taekwondo (ITF). 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence regarding the criteria for receiving the award, how 
many of these certificates were awarded at these events, or any additional information about the awards 
to show that they are recognized at the national or international level. 
Accordingly, based upon the national-level awards received by the Petitioner as a taekwondo and 
muay thai athlete, we disagree with the Director and find that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director, while not referring to specific evidence in his decision, found that the evidence submitted 
under this criterion was either not about the Petitioner, did not include the required information about 
the publication of the material, or was not published in one of the qualifying t~pes of publication. On 
appeal, the Petitioner focuses on one article which was published inl I 
I ] on July 18, 1997. That article, I I focuses l"--'-""'---'-'"'i-itioner and his 
background while discussing thel !national team's victory at th...__ .......... ........._ __ .................. <+,Pionship. 
In addition, the record includes evidence concerning the circulation of.__ ______ __,, including 
a letter from the chief editor of the newspaper stating that at the time of publication this was 55,000 
copies. Additional information from two websites, BBC News and Press Reference, generally 
supports that figure and indicates that the newspaper is one of a small number of major newspapers in 
thd I Therefore, based upon this single article, we disagree with the Director and find 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of certificates showing his certification as an "A Class (International)" 
hapkido judge in 2014, and as an international level referee and judge by the International Federation 
4 
of Muay Thai Amateur (IFMA) in 2016. As proof of his service as a hapkido judge, he submitted a 
letter fro~ I President ofthel IHapkido Martial Arts Federation, listing several 
competitions judged by him i~ lfrom 2011 to 2016. However, an earlier letter frorr0 
~ dated May 24, 2018, indicates that the Petitioner has served as a hapkido judge since May 6, 
2012, and confirms only the two most recent instances at tournaments in 2016. The Petitioner must 
resolve these inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA~Here, he has not explained the 
difference between the date of his certification and the dateL___J states that he became a judge, 
how he was able to participate as a judge prior to obtaining his certification, and why I listed 
a competition that he judged in 2011 in one letter but stated that he began judging in 2012 in the other. 
These discrepancies, and the lack of an explanation of them, significantly decrease the evidentiary 
value oti I letters. We farther note that the list of competitions in I l letter is not 
supported by corroborating evidence of his participation as a judge at those competitions. 
R~garding Ts participation as a judge of muay thai competitions, the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
th Muay Thai Federation listing competitions in Central Asia and Thailand from 2007 to 
2018. As with the evidence regarding his judging of hapkido competitions, the Petitioner does not 
explain how he was able to participate as a judge prior to earning his certification in 2016. However, 
in this case, the Petitioner submitted coP,ies of three photographs which provide sufficient evidence to 
corroborate his claim to have judged th~ I in Muay Thai on August 24, 2016. In 
addition, he provided evidence that the duties of a judge in a muay thai competition include scoring 
the competitors and identifying a winner, versus only enforcing rules of conduct. We therefore 
disagree with the Director and find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, upon review we find that the Beneficiary meets three of the evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and has therefore met the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification. Accordingly, we will not consider whether he also meets additional criteria, but will 
instead consider all of the evidence in the record in performing a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
As we discussed above when considering the evidence of awards the Petitioner has received as a 
martial arts athletbejk evidence shows that he was successful in national taekwondo (ITF and WTF) 
competitions in th._________ I early in his career. He was a member of the national tae~ 
(ITF) team from and was a member of the team which won first place at the D ITF L__J 
I Is that year. However, despite several letters indicating that he continued to be a member 
of the national team up until the time of filing, the record does not include evidence of his participation 
as an athlete in ITF or WTF sanctioned taekwondo competitions outside of thel I after 
1997 as would be expected of a national team member. For exam le an article ublished in the 
on May 17, 2005, titled 
~--------------------~ ' states that the Petitioner was a winner in his 
weight class, and that the national team would compete in upcoming student games in Turkey, the 
Asian Games for juniors, and later the Central Asian Games. However, the record lacks evidence of 
his participation in these competitions, whether in the form of prizes earned, media reports or official 
published results. Therefore, although the evidence shows that, as an athlete, he was a member of the 
national taekwondo team of thq I it does not show that he played an active role on the 
team or competed against taekwondo athletes at the international level after this single tournament in I I and thus that he received acclaim as an athlete and member of the team at the national or 
international level. 
In addition, the evidence demonstrates that later in his career as a martial arts athlete, the Petitioner 
had success at national-level muay thai competitions over several yearr He also sJbmitted a certificate 
showing that he placed third in th~ lin muay thai at the,___ __ ___,of Martial Arts held 
in I !Ukraine in I 12010. However, although several reference letters mention the 
Petitioner's receipt of this award, the record does not include evidence regarding the prestige of this 
award, the number and level of competitors at the event, or media coverage of the event or its results. 
This evidence is therefore not sufficient to show that as a result of placing third in this tournament, the 
Petitioner garnered national or international acclaim or achieved standing among top muay thai 
athletes. Further, despite several reference letters indicating that he served as an athlete and coach of 
the national muay thai team of thel lsince 2004, this is the only evidence which 
indicates that the Petitioner competed in a tournament outside of the country against international 
caliber athletes. 
Also relating to his membership as an athlete on thel rs national taekwondo (ITF) 
team as well as the national muay thai and hapkido teams, the record does not show that these 
memberships placed him among the small percentage of martial artists at the top of the field. In 
particular, several reference letters regarding the Petitioner's membership on the national taekwondo 
(ITF) team were submitted, including some written by authors who state that they personally reviewed 
his achievements when making the membership decision. One was written by I I I lof the Taekwondo Federation of I I who states that membership is 
exclusively granted to athletes and coaches with "a consistent track record of outstanding 
achievements in this sport." He goes on to state that both his admission as an athlete in 1997, and his 
promotion to head coach of the team in 2013, "were recommended by" another taekwondo athlete and 
the then head coach of the national taekwondo team. Both of those individuals also submitted 
reference letters containing nearly identical text. The letters indicate that both individuals reviewed 
the Petitioner's "track record of achievements" and "made a conclusion that [the Petitioner's] 
achievements in the[se] field[s] ... were indeed outstanding." In addition, both letters indicate that 
6 
~----~I national taekwondo (ITF) team "only selects the best of the best and is highly 
selective." 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). 
Although all three letters include multiple instances of the words "outstanding" and "achievement," 
thus repeating the language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), none of them identify exactly 
which of the Petitioner's achievements were considered to qualify him for membership on the team or 
for his promotion to the head coach position, despite the fact that two of them were written by 
individuals who claim to have recommended these actions. I I lists several awards 
received after the Petitioner was made a member of the team, but does not refer to any awards or other 
achievements which he considers to be outstanding and which led to the Petitioner's initial 
membership and coaching position. The letters do not provide details about the standards generally 
used in selecting national team members or coaches, nor do they explain how those standards were 
applied in the Petitioner's case, and they therefore do not show that the Petitioner had proven himself 
to stand out from his peers at the national level. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he received the title of "Master of Sport," presumably as 
a result of his successes in national-level competitions. Specifically, the record includes a letter from 
~---~------~Agency for Tourism and Sport, dated December 2 1 h 
acknowledges his receipt of the title "Master of Sport, International Class, ~--.===~~=. II #79, order #263 ofl ~' In addition, the record includes two certificates~--~ 
c:==::J:me of which was issued for this title in "Taekwondo ITF" and the other for "Taekwondo." 
However, these certificates are numbered as "License #160" and "Certificate #08," respectively, 
neither of which matches the certificate number mentioned in the letter. In addition, despite the 
certificates listing the same date of issue, the photographs of what appear to be the Petitioner are 
dramatically different, with the second showing him with a beard and receding hairline that are missing 
in the first. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Other certificates bestowing the Master of Sport title on the Petitioner were also submitted, including 
in pankration from the "World Pangration Athlima Federation," and in muay thai. However, as with 
the taekwondo certificates discussed above, the Petitioner has not provided evidence regarding the 
criteria for issuance of these certificates and titles, how many are issued, or that he garnered national 
or international acclaim as a result of receiving them. 
As noted above regarding the criterion relating to published material about the Petitioner, although he 
submitted several articles which either mentioned h~eported his results in competitions among 
those of other athletes, only one article published inl__Jfocused on him and provided details about 
his career as a martial arts athlete. This evidence indicates that despite his success as an athlete in 
national-level competitions, he did not receive sustained attention or acclaim in either general media 
or publications focused on sports. 
Turning to the Petitioner's career as a martial arts coach, the endeavor which he intends to pursue in 
the United States, he submitted certificates, letters and other materials which indicate that he has 
7 
served as head coach of thd !national taekwondo (ITF) team since 2013, the national hapkido 
junior team since 2016, and head coach for physical training of the national muay thai team since 
2004. As previously noted, he received two certificates, in 2013 and 2016, for "outstanding training 
of athletes" in ITF taekwondo. However, no information was provided about these certificates, and 
therefore this evidence does not demonstrate that he received national or international acclaim as a 
taerkwondo coach. 
In addition, letters from officials of the national federations of each sport list the names of some of the 
students who have been coached by the Petitioner. For instance.I I lists three athletes 
that the Petitioner coached as members of the national taekwondo (ITF) team, including one who he 
indicates received awards years prior to the Petitioner's appointment as a coach. Although certificates 
were submitted showing that that student won an award in 2008 ( a second certificate is undated), this 
evidence does not indicate that the Petitioner had any part in the student's receipt of that award. 
Several other letters from athletes who state that they trained under the Petitioner's guidance were 
submitted, all of which follow the same organization and include identical language, suggesting the 
language in the letters is not the authors' own. Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 
438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an immigration judge's adverse credibility determination 
in asylum proceedings based in part on the similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. 
Dept. of Justice, 489 F .3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may 
reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is 
the common source). The shared organization and text in these letters indicates that they share a 
common source, and thus reduces their evidentiary value. 
Further, several of the letters state that the Petitioner was responsible for coaching an athlete named 
......------.------,I and lists among his accom lishments the receipt of a silver medal at th~ 
Mua Thai Cham ionship in Sweden. However, a letter from the Muay Thai 
Federation'---,------,--....,...-------,--' indicates tha ~------_.(different spelling then in all of 
the letters) trained under several coaches, including the "Head Coach of the I I I ~ but does not mention the Petitioner. As with the discrepancies in the Master of Sport 
certificates, these discrepancies in the letters must be resolved by independent evidence. Ho, at 591-
92. Here, we note that other evidence in the record also introduces discrepancies regarding the 
Petitioner's role with the national muay thai team. Specifically, an article dated September 13, 2016 
from the website I I J is about the "thai boxing" team training for thel I Games, 
and mentions that athletes, including~------ are "consulted by the Federation head coach I I Although the article also mentions that the athletes attended a "seminar" held by the 
Petitioner, he is identified as the president of his own fight club and as an international category referee 
and judge, and his role is stated as explaining "what techniques the referees want to see this year." As 
such, although this article verifies that the Petitioner provided guidance to muay thai athletes during 
this seminar, it does not support the claims that he acted as a coach of the national team or had any 
significant influence in its training. 
In addition to the article discussed above, another article, which was taken from the website 
I 1 0 1 ~ and is dated May 10, 2016, consists of an interview o±i~----~I and once again 
identifies him as the coach of thel I national muay thai team. The Petitioner is 
mentioned only as one of his many trainees. 
8 
In summary, although the evidence establishes that the Petitioner has been successful as an athlete in 
national-level martial arts competitions, it does not demonstrate that he has enjoyed sustained national 
or international acclaim. Also, the evidence of only limited participation in international-level martial 
arts tournaments does not support a finding that he is one of the small percentage of athletes at the top 
of the field. In addition, the evidence of his career as a martial arts coach does not show that he has 
earned sustained acclaim for this second phase of his career in the martial arts. Further, considering 
the numerous inconsistencies in the evidence regarding all aspects of his career as a martial arts athlete, 
coach and referee which have not been resolved, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
qualifies as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12091424 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cardiovascular researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
submitting evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or by 
demonstrating that she meets at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical doctor and research scientist who performs research in the areas of 
pulmonary hypertension, cardiovascular science, and mechanical circulatorj assist devices. She has 
been employed as an associate professor at the University I Health Science Center I I in the Division of Cardiac Surgery since January 2019. Previously, the Petitioner was 
employed as a research associate atl !Healthcare in the division of cardiothoracic 
surgery, and as a graduate research associate atl I University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two criteria, pertaining to judging and scholarly articles. 
The record supports this conclusion, as it reflects that the Petitioner has peer-reviewed manuscripts 
for professional publications and conferences and has authored scholarly articles published in 
professional journals including Hypertension, The Journal of Heart and Lung Transplantation, and 
Journal of Cardiology. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that she also meets the other two 
claimed criteria. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established 
2 
that she meets a third criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and has not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. Major 
significance in the field may be shown, for example, through evidence that her research findings or 
original methods or processes have been widely accepted and implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field.1 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence of her publications in journals, citation history, participation in 
international conferences and symposia, and several reference letters from experts familiar with her 
work. At the time of filing, she indicated that she made an original contribution in the field of 
ulmona h ertension as the first researcher to identify the involvemen~t_of.....__ _____ _ 
in the molecular pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension r'------,......,....,....----=-----,-1 L-----r---------,.J 
She further indicated that, in a related study, she discovered "the first known ~-~ 
agent that limits the progression of pulmonary hypertension 
Finally, she indicated that her "contributions to the field of clinical research related to mechanical 
circulatory assist devices are, in the aggregate, original scientific contributions of major significance." 
The reference letters submitted in support of the petition confirm the originality of the Petitioner's 
research related tol I and pulmonary hypertension but are lacking detail explaining how her 
discoveries have already been widely accepted and implemented in the field to the extent that they 
have been regarded as contributions of major significance. For exampleJ I Senior 
Vice President for Research at I I Healthcare, states that the Petitioner's novel 
identification of the role I I plays in the progression of pulmonary hypertension I I I I and the role o~ I in inhibiting the progress of the disease, "is a huge step in the 
understanding and management" of this type of pulmonary hypertension. He states that the Petitioner 
has made "contributions of major significance to this field," but does not elaborate on the impact of 
her research. 
Likewise,~------~Division Chief of Cardiac Surgery atl I affirms the novelty 
of the Petitioner's research regarding! land pulmonary hypertension and refers to this research as 
a "scientific contribution of major significance." However, he does not further explain the impact of 
the research. Rather, he highlights its significance by noting that it "was so substantial that her abstract 
about this work was one of the top abstra~ed for presentation at the American Heart 
Association [AHA] Scientific Sessions held atL___JFlorida inl 12011," and subsequently 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/defau lt/fi I es/USC I S/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
3 
published in the AHA journal Hypertension, which he describes as "the most respected h ertension 
medical journal in the world." I I currently a professor a .----'-----~---' 
School of Medicine, describes the Petitioner's discovery of the first know ,___-----,--------,----'agent 
that limits the progression of pulmonary hypertension as "truly novel and avant garde," and notes her 
publication in Hypertension. He emphasizes that she was recognized by the national and international 
community as evidenced by her invitation to present her research at the □Annual meeting of the 
Society of Free Radical Biology Medicine and at the AHA Scientific Sessions, but he does not explain 
how the Petitioner's research findings went on to significantly impact or influence the field. Although 
funded and published work may be "original," the publication or presentation of one's work alone is 
not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included one additional letter from,___ _____ ___,Professor of 
Surgery at I I who stated that the Petitioner's research "is truly a contribution of major 
significance in the field of pulmonary hypertension." Specifically he noted that her research "has led 
to a series of significant publications and resentations throu hout the world on clinical and medical 
knowledge related to the management of ________ ___,heart failure patients, including their 
selection, care and long-term prognosis fa mechanical device implantation and I I I I heart failure by the use o~ I mechanical devices." However, he does not describe 
her research in these areas, speak to its originality, or explain in detail how her work has been widely 
accepted or implemented in the field to support his conclusion that she has made contributions of 
major significance. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 2 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Here, the letters do not, for example, indicate that 
therapeutic treatments were being developed as a result of the Petitioner's research, that her work has 
already had a widespread impact, or that it substantially influenced the nature or direction of research 
being conducted in her area of specialty. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that while she had established the 
originality of her contributions, she did not submit sufficient evidence to establish their major 
significance in her field. The Director requested additional evidence to demonstrate how her work 
had been unusually influential or how it has substantially affected her field. 
The Petitioner's response included one additional letter in su art of this criterion from~I --~~ I I a cardiac electrophysiology specialist a.__ _ __,;-'-'----.....,states that the Petitioner "has 
established a link between! land patients receiving assist devices" and states that 
her "research on the outcomes of patients treated with.___ ___ ___,devices will benefit heart failure 
patents worldwide." He also notes that her research "has immense potential in changing the 
management of heart failure worldwide" and provides a list of ten of her publications as "a testimony 
of [the Petitioner's] high impact research." Finally, he notes that her 2013 article published in 
Hypertension "is the only publication in the world to show the connection between! I and 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 
4 
pulmonary hypertension," and states that "[h]er findings have contributed to better understand heart 
failure and for better practices in the field of medicine as evidenced by her findings being majorly 
cited by other medical professionals in the area of heart failure." However, he does not describe in 
any detail how the Petitioner's research has already influenced medical practices and the record does 
not contain supporting evidence demonstrating this influence. In addition, as discussed further below, 
the record does not corroborate! ts assertion that the Petitioner's research in this area has 
been "majorly cited." Most of his other assertions regarding the impact of the Petitioner's work 
speaks to its potential or future benefit and do not demonstrate her research has already had an impact 
or influence commensurate with "major significance." 
Rather than providing specific examples of how the Petitioner's work has already substantially 
impacted her filed, the submitted reference letters point to the Petitioner's publication of her research 
in respected journals and presentation of her work at prestigious conferences as evidence that validates 
the importance of her work. 
However, the Petitioner's publications, conference presentations, and citation history, considered 
independently and in context with the evidence as a whole, are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
The record provides ample evidence that the Petitioner has published her research and presented at 
international conferences in her field. Such evidence verifies that the Petitioner has shared her original 
research. To satisfy this criterion, she must demonstrate that the reaction from others in the field is 
such that it supports a finding that her work rises to the level of "contributions of major significance" 
in the field. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles 
in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the 
petitioner's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of their 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 3 
The Petitioner submitted a full Google Scholar citation history in response to the Director's RFE which 
lists over 60 publications since 2010 and shows that she had received 305 total citations.4 With respect 
to her research related to and ulmona h ertension the citation histor reflects that her 
....._ ___ ~· published in Cell Biochemistry and Cell Biophysics in 2013, had been cited 32 times. 
The article that is most referenced in the submitted recommendation letters 
published in Hypertension in 2013, had garnered 22 citations. The Petitioner's most-cited articles in 
the area of ventricular assist devices were both published in The Journal of Heart and Lung 
Transplantation in 2012 and 2013 and have 46 and 28 citations, respectively. 
In evaluating this evidence, the Director acknowledged I Is statement that the Petitioner's 
work had been "majorly cited by other medical professionals," but determined that her "citatory 
history of 305 citations" did not compare favorably with that of leading scientists who have garnered 
thousands of citations, and therefore did not substantiate the major significance of her contributions. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 An incomplete Google Scholar printout submitted at the time of filing showed 269 total citations. The Petitioner also 
submitted a citation summary from ResearchGate indicating that she had 52 publications that had been cited 202 times in 
total. 
5 
We note that the comparison of the Petitioner's overall number of citations to that of other scientists 
or researchers in her field is not appropriate in determining whether she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Rather, the evaluation of the Petitioner's total citations 
relative to others in her field would be more relevant in a final merits determination to analyze whether 
she demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim and recognition of her achievements 
in the field through extensive documentation. 
However, it is appropriate to consider evidence of citations to specific articles that relate to the 
Petitioner's claimed original contributions of major significance. Generally, citations to a given article 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work; however, the fact that 
a petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself, sufficient to 
establish the she meets this criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence 
establishing that the citation numbers recorded in Google Scholar confirm that one or more of her 
publications has provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field 
at a level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the field." Although she has 
submitted evidence that her work has been cited by other researchers throughout the United States and 
internationally, she has not sufficiently shown that her work has been cited as authoritative in the field 
or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant way. 
We note that the Petitioner characterizes her own citation numbers as "moderate," but emphasizes that 
"the quality of submitted citations is also just as critical in determining whether the field has genuinely 
taken interest in a researcher's work." For example, she emphasizes that she published in 
Hypertension, which "ranks #1 among all hypertension journals and #4 among 67 journals in the I I category ... and has an impact factor= 6.873 and a manuscript acceptance 
rate: 22%." We note that a given publication's high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the 
publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, demonstrate the influence of any particular 
author within the field, how an author's individual research impacted the field, or establish a 
contribution of major significance in the field. The record does not establish that the 22 citations 
received by the Petitioner's 2013 article in Hypertension reflect that it has been the subject of 
widespread commentary in the field consistent with an original contribution of major significance. 
Therefore, while we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that the citation numbers may not fully convey 
the importance of the work, we cannot conclude that she has provided evidence to suppor~ Is 
claim that her work has been "majorly cited" by other medical researchers or that her contributions 
have already significantly influenced research in her field. The record contains ample evidence 
regarding the prevalence and seriousness of cardiovascular disorders including pulmonary 
hypertension and heart failure. While we recognize the importance of this field of medical research, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that her work has 
already had a major influence in her field such as, for example, by significantly influencing treatment 
practices, development of therapeutics, or the direction of further research. 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence on appeal in support of this 
criterion, including copies of two recommendation letters which she states were submitted in support 
of a 0-1 nonimmigrant petition filed on her behalf in 2014. In fact, most of the arguments made on 
appeal rely on these letters, with few specific references explaining how the previously submitted 
evidence was sufficient to establish her eligibility or how the Director erred in his evaluation of that 
6 
evidence. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 
l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). As noted, the Director issued an RFE which included an explanation of 
the deficiencies in the record and a list of evidence that could be submitted to overcome those 
deficiencies. Accordingly, we will not consider this newly submitted evidence in evaluating this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner also submits evidence that she has recently had four abstracts related to mechanical 
ventricular support and heart transplantatiol acce}ed for presentation at thd I 
Heart and Lung Transplantations meeting in 020. However, this evidence post-dates the filing 
of the petition and has not been considered in our evaluation of her eligibility under this criterion. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that she has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that she played a leading and critical role as an assistant professor ac==J. 
as a research associate atl I Healthcare, and as a post-graduate research associateatLJ I !University. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is 
or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in 
fact, leading. 5 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 6 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on a description of her research 
activities for each institution, rather than relying on detailed letters from individualf with personal 
knowledge of the significance of her roles. For example, she noted that her work at land I I Healthcare resulted in "significant publications and presentations" and submitted a 
screenshot from the surgical department's website where she is listed as an associate 
professor. s letter stated that she had performed "the critical role of translational 
medical researcher" a~--~ while I I indicated that she served "in an essential 
capacity as a key person in translational medical research" atl I Neither individual elaborated 
on how she contributed in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of the university's 
activities, nor did their letters identify in what capacity the authors gained personal knowledge of the 
Petitioner's role atl I 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 Id. 
7 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I and a more detailed 
letter froml 11 lofl !states that he has "direct and personal knowledge of 
[the Petitioner's] leading and critical role in the academic division of cardiac surgery as judged by the 
research performed by her." He goes on to highlight her research and publications in the areas of 
pulmonary hypertension and ventricular assist devices, and notes that her findings published in 
Hypertension in 2013 were "singular in the university's cardiac surgery department." However, much 
of the research he describes was conducted by the Petitioner at other institutions as the record reflects 
that she has been atl lonly since early 2019. I I does not of,er probrive details in 
support of his assertion that she performs in a "leading and critical role" for or that he has 
personal knowledge of her roles for other universities. 
In his second letterl lstates that he has worked directly with the Petitioner atl ,I 
~------~Memorial Hospital andl lover the last 10 years and can confirm her "lead 
and critical role" for each institution. Specifically, he indicates that he has been "the principal 
investigator under whom [the Petitioner has erformed her research activities since July 2009." With 
~Q~gLto the Petitioner's role at~ __ ___, I !notes her discovery of the link between ~nd pulmonary hypertension and her "extraordinary contributions in the development of this 
proJect' in his laboratory. He credits her with supporting NIH and AHA funding proposals, with 
placing the I I Division of Cardiac Surgery "on the national and international map by 
presenting her work at national and international scientific society meetings and publishing in high 
impact journals" and emphasizes her "critical part" and "importance to the Division of Cardiac 
Surgery" at the university. I ts statement establishes that the Petitionel perforled 
admirably in her post-graduate research role in his division and that her expertise in was 
important to his own research. It does not establish that she held a "leading" role based on her 
placement within the university's organizational structure, or provide sufficient support for a finding 
that she was responsible for the university's success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning 
of "critical role." 
With respect to her role as a research associate at,___ _____ ___,Memorial Hospital, .... I ___ ___, 
states that the Petitioner was "the only MD who actively pursued research in the [hospital's] Division of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery." He emphasizes that the Petitioner had eight abstracts accepted for presentation 
at the 20161 !meeting, which was "the highest number by an individual in my department." While 
this information indicates that the Petitioner was a successful and productive researcher withinD 
I Is department, it does not offer probative details establishing how the Petitioner's role as a 
research associate was leading based on its placement in the hospital's hierarchy, or that her role was 
significant to the outcome of the hospital's activities to the extent that the role was critical. 
Finally,! !discusses the Petitioner's role atl I stating that she is "the only researcher 
with an MD pursuing full-time research in my division of cardiac surgery," and, out of five faculty 
members, "is the only faculty exclusively hired for her expertise in research," with responsibility for 
"leading the research efforts of the division." He further describes some of her duties, including 
maintenance of laboratory equipment and protocols, performance of animal and molecular biology 
experiments, development of collaborations with other physicians and scientists, and mentorship of 
medical and undergraduate students. Whilel Jconveys that he considers the Petitioner to be 
invaluable to the success of the medical research undertaken by his laboratory and indicates that she serves 
in a unique role within the department based on her medical degree and research interests, his letter does 
8 
not offer probative details explaining how her assistant professor role is leading within~I --~lor how it 
is of significant importance to the hospital's standing or success. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she is now providing "more detailed and probative evidence of her 
leading and critical roles and how they impacted, as a whole, the organizations of distinguished 
reputations for whom she has made original scientific discoveries." As noted, where a Petitioner has 
been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 
19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
Nevertheless, we note that the new evidence, a third letter trorn I repeats much of the 
same content included in the letter previously provided in response to the RFE. He further elaborates 
on the Petitioner's current role atl lhy
1explainilg that he and two other nationally renowned 
cardiovascular physicians were recruited by in January 2019 "to build a cardiovascular 
institute that would offer world-class care in all areas of cardiovascular medicine." I I 
explains that "[i]t is not possible to build a world-class cardiovascular center without certain 
extraordinary medical researchers who can lead and play the critical role between translating the 
clinical outcomes and advancing the research necessary to imagine, research, perform the experiments, 
demonstrate through peer-reviewed journal articles and presentations at national and international 
conferences and maintain the collaborations and seek the rants necessary to sustain such an effort." 
He states that the Petitioner "is one such a person." also explains that her research is 
expected to "critically influence patient care" in the~--~Tennessee area and other areas of need 
in the region. 
Whilel I indicates that he considers the Petitioner's role essential for the successful launch 
otl b new cardiovascular center, the evidence does not establish that this role is in a lead or 
critical capacity that is responsible for the standing otl I as a whole or that the cardiovascular 
center, opened the same year the petition was ti led, enjoys a distinguished reputation. Further, although 
he indicates that the Petitioner is heading his laboratory and leading rrearch activities for his department, 
it has not been established that she has a leading role within 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
B. Prior 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
9 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090673 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film and media editor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record does not establish that he has 
national or international acclaim and is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director did not conduct a 
proper final merits determination. 
We review the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement, that 
is a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a film and media editor. Because the Petitioner has not established that he received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field; 
• (vii) Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii) Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria: lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, display at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
However, upon review of the record in its totality, we conclude that the record does not establish that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of: (1) 2005 I Latin America Awards 
presented to (2 2005 Latin America A wards 
presented to (3) 2006 Latin America Awards 
lnresented to and 4 20061 I Latin America Awards 
presented to The Petitioner is listed as the editor 
on the awards. The Petitioner also submitted various articles about 1,1 I awards, a keynote 
speaker for the organization's annual conference in 2007, and some of the past winners of 
awards from the !website and other various websites. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
two articles from the Businesswire.com website, which state that is the largest member 
association for the global entertainment marketing community and is a global, non-profit association 
dedicated to advancing the role and effectiveness of promotion, marketing, and broadcast design 
professionals in the electronic media. These articles discuss I I awards generally and its 
recipients but do not provide any information regarding specific categories that the Petitioner was 
awarded in or establish that the Petitioner was recognized for excellence in the field as a film and 
media editor. The record does not contain sufficient evidence about I I awards, such as different 
categories for the awards, an overview of the different levels of awards, the selection criteria used to 
grant the awards, national or international significance of the specific awards in the field, the number 
of awardees, or candidates for the awards. As such, we are unable to determine the purpose of the 
awards. For example, the record does explain what I I is and does not address the 
significance of the laward to establish that the Petitioner was recognized for excellence 
in his field as a film and media editor and considered as one of the top film and media editors in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence ofl I Festivals "2006 Bronze Award" presented to 
where the Petitioner is listed as the editor. The Petitioner 
submitted various articles about some of the past winners of Festivals television and film 
awards, and international advertising awards from the Festivals website and other various 
websites. The I Festivals website states tha Festivals television and film awards 
honor content in all lengths and forms from over 50 countries and embrace all aspects of the television 
and film industries. However, the record does not provide any information regarding the specific 
category that the Petitioner was awarded in or establish that the Petitioner was recognized for 
excellence in his field as a film and media editor and considered as one of the top film and media 
editors in the field. The record does not contain sufficient evidence about I Festivals awards, 
such as different categories for the awards, an overview of the different levels of awards, the selection 
criteria used to grant the awards, national or international significance of the specific awards in the 
field, the number of awardees, or candidates for the awards. 
While the Petitioner provided evidence of 2005 and 2006 I Latin America Awards and 2006 I !Festivals Bronze Award, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient documentary evidence to 
establish that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of a prize or award is insufficient to meet the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) without documentary evidence reflecting that 
3 
the prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet the judging criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed that he served as a judge of the work of filmmakers in the I I 
Festival. The Petitioner submitted two letters from the Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the I I which indicate that the Petitioner was invited to participate 
as a judge at an event to be held in I I 2021. The letters also states that thel I I I is an online education platform on which the students can access learning materials about 
film making. The Petitioner filed the instant visa petition in October 2021 -two months prior to 
the scheduled event. In a notice of intent to deny, the Director requested for evidence of the actual 
participation of the Petitioner as a judge at the claimed event. In response to the notice, the 
Petitioner did not provide the requested evidence or other evidence to supplement the record. 
There is no documentary evidence from the or other sufficient evidence 
indicating that the Petitioner actually participated in judging at the event at the time of filing his 
visa petition. Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Accordingly, the Petitioner does 
not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. The plain language 
of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) requires "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's work 
in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases." A review of the record of proceeding reflects that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claimed that he has performed in a leading and critical role forl a 
production company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted four letters from the Executive Producer 
and a founding partner ofl The letters state that the Petitioner worked forl lin 
4 
the post-production audiovisual department from March 2004 to June 2015; he fulfilled all his duties 
in a serious and responsible manner; he was the most trustworthy service provider; and he contributed 
to the company to achieve the highest standard of quality in audiovisual production. However, the 
letters do not describe how the Petitioner's position fits within the overall hierarchy of I 
Without an organizational chart or other evidence documenting how the Petitioner fits within the 
general hierarchy of I I the Petitioner cannot establish that he has performed in a leading 
role. With regard to critical roles, the Petitioner must establish how he contributed tol I 
outcome or activities. The letters fall short of specifying how the Petitioner contributed tol I 
in a way that is significant to its outcome or activities. Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient independent, objective evidence distinguishing! I from other highly regarded 
production companies so as to establish that it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he has performed in a leading and critical role for I 
a production company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Director of 
which states that the Director worked with the Petitioner, resulting in a high-
quality work and that the Director's video clip by lwas awarded Best Pop 
Video in thel Film Festival in 2014 and Teen Choice Award in the I 
Music and Video Festival in 2014. However, the letter does not describe how the Petitioner's position 
fits within the overall hierarchy of I to establish that he has performed in a leading 
role. The letter also does not specify how the Petitioner contributed to I I in a way 
that is significant to its outcome or activities. In addition, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient 
independent, objective evidence demonstrating thatl has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he has performed in a critical role forl a production 
company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted a letter from a filmmaker and a co-founder of I I I which states that the co-founder has known the Petitioner for over 10 years as a 
professional post-producer and that the Petitioner has shown outstanding skills and social ethics. The 
letter also states that thanks to the Petitioner's professional and personal aptitudes, 
has received awards and recognition. For example, the letter states tha film titled 
I ]won Best Thriller Film Award in ilm in 2021 and that its film 
titled I won Best Dark Corned Award in 1Film Festival in 2018. We 
acknowledge that films produced b have received awards. However, the letter 
does not specify how the Petitioner contributed tol in a way that is significant to the 
outcome of the organization. The letter does not explain how the Petitioner's role as a film editor was 
critical to the overall outcome ofl I activities. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not 
submit sufficient independent, objective evidence that distinguishes! I from other 
highly regarded production companies. Every production company that boasts its accomplishments 
does not necessary demonstrate a distinguished reputation. 
Without sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets the plain language of this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
5 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Forms 1-140 are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. 
US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 
1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the 
USCIS service centers (the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition) is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, *1, *3 (E.D. La.), aff'd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 
51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have 
reviewed the record in its totality and conclude that the Petitioner has not established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner 
appears to be a talented editor in the production of short films and marketing entertainment videos. 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work as an editor in the film and 
media industry is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that he has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23271180 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as a teacher, coach, and speaker of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has more than two decades' ex erience racticing I I a system of 
movement and meditatio The Petitioner learned the I I 
discipline by studying with masters at China's and subsequently 
introduced it to Mexico through the formation of his instructional facility and retreat.I I 
The Petitioner has submitted documentation demonstrating his intention to continue educating others 
in the field ofl I and to participate in speaking engagements in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must establish he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating 
to six criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor, 
• (iii) Published material about the individual, 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance, 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
• (viii) Performance of leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations, and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the record did not contain evidence sufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner met any of the above-listed criteria necessary for qualification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in a specific field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he provided evidence 
sufficient to satisfy five criteria addressed in the Director's final decision. As more fully discussed 
below, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director misinterpreted certain evidence submitted initially and 
in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). For the reasons discussed below, we 
conclude that the Director miscategorized the field of extraordinary ability for which the Petitioner 
requested consideration. Specifically, the petition lists the Petitioner's occupation as "Coach/Speaker 
/ Teacher," and the record highlights his contributions as an educator through his development of 
original teaching methods that introduced and popularized the practice ofl I in Mexico. 
The Director, however, categorized the Petitioner's claim as one of extraordinary ability in the field 
2 
of "traditional Chinese medicine under the sciences." On remand, the Director should evaluate the 
Petitioner as an educator in the field of I I 
We also conclude that the Director did not adequately address all the claimed evidentiary criteria. An 
officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(1)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director did not adequately 
explain the reasons for denial of the petition, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
On remand, the Director should review the evidence of record relating to the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (viii), and (ix). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of an award of recognition received from the former deputy director 
of the _________ in China for the Petitioner's teaching endeavors in Mexico. A 
letter from the president of an academy of Chinese disciplines in Italy describes the "highly symbolic" 
award as having never before been granted to a foreign practitioner of the discipline. 
In his decision, the Director summarily stated that the Petitioner has not offered independent, objective 
evidence to show that the award is considered a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. The Director provided no explanation or analysis of the evidence 
submitted. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(1)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. at 786. On remand, 
the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it 
meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in thefieldfor which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion, as the published material submitted is 
related to the Petitioner and his specific work in the field for which classification is sought, and the 
publications qualify as major media publications. 
Notably, with regard to articles in El Universal and Buen Hagar (Good Housekeeping), the Director 
erroneously stated that they "merely reference or quote [ the Petitioner] but are not about [ the 
Petitioner]." However, upon review, these articles name the Petitioner and describe his training and 
expertise inl las well as his intention to teach the discipline outside of China. Further, 
the record contains numerous articles about the Petitioner and his work published in various additional 
national publications distributed within Mexico, as well as major, internationally-recognized 
magazines. Also, the Director mischaracterized the probative value of some of the printed online 
3 
sources. He stated that they consist of "minimized screenshots and snippets ... whose print in many 
cases is too small to read or in Spanish." However, upon review, the relevant materials are legible; 
the corresponding translations are present; the materials show their titles, dates, and authors; and they 
relate to the Petitioner's work in the field for which classification is sought. We therefore conclude 
that the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted three certificates of acknowledgement from the National Cancer lnstitute-
1 NCan, a public institution administered by the Mexican Secretariat of Health-as evidence of his 
academic contributions to the field ofl I The record also contains numerous articles 
and letters of support that reference the Petitioner's work introducing I Ito Mexico and 
the original teaching methods he developed to promote and spread the discipline to thousands of 
people. Several articles and letters also reference the positive impacts of the Petitioner's teachings on 
employee productivity. Notably, the record includes letters from three prominent individuals: the 
aforementioned president of an academy of Chinese disciplines in Italy, a former manager of editorial 
development at Reforma in Mexico, and formerl I Although these 
letters describe the Petitioner's acclaim in Mexico for his influence on thousands of people through 
his teaching process, the Director concluded that "they do not demonstrate [the Petitioner's] original 
contributions of major significance to traditional Chinese medicine." The Director did not evaluate 
whether the letters demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance as an 
educator in the field ofl 1 Similarly, the Director did not evaluate whether the 
published articles in the record demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions of major 
significance as an educator. 
Additionally, the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence using the standards for the final-merits 
determination, stating that "an individual with sustained national or international acclaim should be 
able to produce unsolicited materials reflecting that acclaim." Under Kazarian, the issue of whether 
a Petitioner's achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim is only 
assessed after it has been determined that they meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.S(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criterion. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
1 We note that the Director deemed the letters of support as "solicited," and gave them less evidentiary weight. However, 
the Director issued an RFE requesting the submission of additional letters from notable figures to supplement those initially 
submitted. The Petitioner obtained the requested letters and submitted them in response to the RFE. 
4 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi ii). 
The Petitioner submitted numerous articles and letters of support to establish that his business,! I 
qualifies as an organization or establishment having a distinguished reputation. In his 
decision, the Director cited articles that reference the blessing and encouragement given by China's 
for the Petitioner to teachl I in Mexico, stating, 
"[T]hese articles are sympathetic to your cause and constitute promotional material. As such, they are 
not objective sources of your business's distinguished reputation." However, the articles do not appear 
to be advertisements, nor do they appear to be authored by anyone affiliated with ____ 
With regard to the letters of support, the Director stated, "You also submitted letters from your 
followers who do not offer independent, objective views regarding your business." However, the 
Director did not provide any analysis for this determination. Also, absent an explanation, the Director 
stated, "Nor do your tax statements establish the distinction of your organization." The Director's 
determination of the Petitioner's qualifications under this criterion consists of conclusory statements 
without corresponding analysis. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a){l){i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 
at 786. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criteria 
to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As evidence of his high income relative to others in similar fields, the Petitioner submitted receipts 
showing his earnings for various speaking engagements, his tax statements, and printouts from 
websites showing salaries in Mexico for occupations he believed to be comparative to his vocation. 
The Director did not adequately assess the contents of the tax statements because of his conclusion 
that they "are not signed and appear to be computer-generated work sheets." However, on appeal, the 
Petitioner affirms that the statements "are downloaded from the Mexican government's tax platform 
and do not include ... any signature or designated space for any signature." Further, the Director's 
analysis of the salary data is misplaced due to the Director's erroneous categorization of the 
Petitioner's field of extraordinary ability, as previously discussed. On remand, the Director should 
fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criteria to determine if it meets the requirements 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (viii), and (ix). If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
of these initial evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the 
record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the 
5 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28949852 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hair stylist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference (EB-1) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a hair stylist who has participated in fashion-related competitions and performed 
work as a hair stylist in support of film productions abroad, among other things. He provided evidence 
such as a sublease for a hair stylist chair from a salon as his means to provide hair styling services to 
his customers, and he intends to continue working as a hair stylist in the United States should this 
petition be approved. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of the two evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria 
relating to published material (iii), judging (iv), and original contributions (v). He does not assert 
eligibility under the membership (ii), authorship (vi), display of work (vii), high salary (ix), or 
commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address 
these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
2 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing ofthe organization or establishment. To meet this 
criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion through his role as a guest lecturer at the Instituto 
(I-) located in Florida, and as a hair stylist for films produced byl I ~----------~ (L-) a film production studio located in Russia. The Director determined that the Petitioner met this 
criterion, however we withdraw the Director's determination for the following reasons. 
With regard to his involvement with I-, the Petitioner references letters froml l(Ms. 
M-), who is said to be employed by I-as a fashion styling professor. Ms. M-states that she invited 
the Petitioner to be a guest lecturer "on occasion" in order to share "his views and approaches to 
creative styling [which] showed the students how to 'feel the fashion,' integrating the spirit of style 
into the experience of learners on a daily basis, [ and to share] his knowledge of European fashion 
trends and the way they can be combined with each other or with other cultural influences ...." Ms. 
M-does not indicate whether the Petitioner has ever been employed by I-nor does she explain how 
his leadership and critical role contributions to I-compares to others holding positions of authority 
and responsibility within the organization. While we acknowledge that I-may enjoy a distinguished 
reputation as an international fashion school, without more, the evidence falls short in establishing 
how the Petitioner's involvement as a guest lecturer at I-translates into his performing a leading or 
critical role for the I-organization, itself. 
Turning to his activities for the L-film production studio, the Petitioner provides a letter fromc=JI l(Ms. T-), who worked with the Petitioner as an actress on films produced by L-. Ms. T-states 
that "during the Soviet era, [L-] was the second largest production branch of the Soviet film industry, 
which incorporated more than 30 film studios located across the former Soviet Union." The Petitioner 
also provided two pages from L-' s website which indicate that it is still producing films in Russia. 
However, the record does not substantiate that L-possesses a distinguished reputation as a film studio 
in the film production industry. 
Ms. T-speaks favorably of the hair styling work performed by the Petitioner in the film productions 
that they were mutually involved with, noting for instance that he "is a creative thinker in the first tum, 
[] always organized, responsible and diligent, and related well to all the actors and film crew 
members," and worked "as a hair and fashion stylist for major Russian celebrity actors at [L-]." She 
notes that she personally employed him as her own hair stylist for an appearance at an awards 
ceremony. However, the record lacks contemporaneous, documentary evidence to establish the 
Petitioner's employment, if any, by L-, nor has the Petitioner provided evidence from the L-
3 
organization itself to detail the specifics of his role and responsibilities there. Without more, we 
conclude that this evidence is of little probative value to the issue at hand. Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 376. Here, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that he 
meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that they 
have not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the 
judging of the work ofothers in the same or allied field of specialization. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, supra. 
The Director determined that the evidence provided did not adequately support the Petitioner's claim 
that he has judged the work ofothers in the field through acting as an "examinations" judge ofstudents' 
work at I-. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he previously "provided evidence ofhis invitation to 
join the panel and his active participation as a jury member." He points to Ms. M-'s May 2022 letter 
and internet materials about I-, asserting that this evidence "clearly established" the Petitioner's 
eligibility for this criterion. 
In her letter, Ms. M-explains that the Petitioner was "invited to judge the works of [f]ashion students 
at the end of their educational journey (as their final step to obtain their diploma). [He] was invited 
as a judge in February 2020 as the hair stylist expert alongside a famous professor of fashion 
photography [] and many other professional judges who were to express their opinions on the students' 
full fashion work." However, the record does not include contemporaneous evidence confirming his 
invitation to act as a judge at this or other events. Additionally, there is insufficient documentary 
evidence in the record corroborating the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others for 
I-or at events sponsored by other entities. 
Further, the submitted internet-based information about I-makes no mention of the examinations that 
the Petitioner contends he judged. Here, the record lacks evidence as to what I-'s February 2020 "full 
fashion" examinations entailed, including the criteria considered by judges in selecting winners ofthe 
examinations if the judging involved evaluating competitive entries by diploma candidates, or the 
scoring mechanisms used to otherwise determine the candidates had passed the examinations. Without 
additional probative information, we cannot determine whether judging this event entailed judging the 
work of others in the Petitioner's claimed field of expertise or an allied field. In evaluating the 
evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Matter 
cf Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. For these reasons, we conclude the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the _field for which class[fication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 
To determine whether the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language of this 
criterion, we first determine whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major media publication. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended 
audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
supra. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted articles about his work, and the circulation 
statistics for the publications where they appeared. The Director discussed the evidence and 
determined that it was insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. Based 
on our review of the record, we agree that the Petitioner has not established the articles about his work 
and accomplishments were published in professional, major trade, or major media publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in analyzing the evidence submitted under this 
criterion, noting "USCIS should focus on the circulation of the publication, its intended audience if it 
is a professional or trade publication, or the editorial influence of the media source, rather than solely 
[on] whether the publication is national in scope." Contrary to the Petitioner's assertion, the Director 
did not evaluate whether these publications enjoyed a national readership, either in her request for 
evidence (RFE) or in the denial. Rather, she asked for evidence in his RFE about the comparative 
circulation of the publications to other publications, and for additional information about the nature of 
their intended audiences. But the Petitioner did not sufficiently address these aspects, either in his 
RFE response or in the appeal brief "Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material 
line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references a 2006 article in the'.
_________ ____,' (K-P-) newspaper, 
which discusses among other things, the Petitioner's first place showing in a hairstyling competition. 
The documentation included evidence reflecting a 26,000-copy circulation for K-P-in that year. In 
response to the Director's RFE, he also submitted material from of K-P-'s website which identifies 
the number of digital visits to its website in 2022, 16 years after the article was published. Similarly, 
he points to another 2006 article published in thel l{T-P-) newspaper which discusses 
the Petitioner's competitive achievements as a member of a college team. T-P-had a circulation of 
3,500 at that time and the Petitioner also provided evidence of T-P-'s 2022 website visit numbers. 
We conclude this evidence does not sufficiently illustrate that the level ofcirculation for either ofthese 
publications in 2006 was indicative of a major media publication, nor does it establish the intended 
audience of these publications. Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that these newspapers 
constitute qualifying publications in order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also references a previously submitted un-dated article that appeared inl l(M­
M-). During this interview, the Petitioner discusses the hair stylist competitions that he participated 
5 
in during the roughly six-year time period from 2006 to 2011. In the article, he shares that he no 
longer competes in such contests but still enjoys working in the "Art" style. The limited information 
in the record about M-M-suggests that it is an internet-based Russian language periodical published 
in Florida, with a viewership of less than 5,000 visits a month. Without more, this material does not 
show that this article appeared in a qualifying publication. Chawathe, supra. 
This evidentiary criterion has not been met. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this remaining 
issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. l O(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 petition. Although 
USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the 
prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated 
based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories 
have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability 
in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). 
But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajf'd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while the Petitioner previously 
achieved some success as a hair stylist, the record does not support a finding that he has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28511240 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a big data center consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, the record did not establish 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the top of their field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner seeks to work as a big data center consultant in the United States. The Director 
concluded that the provided evidence sufficed to meet three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 1: 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• (viii) Performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with 
distinguished reputations. 
Because the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to conduct a final 
merits determination as described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Upon examining the petition in 
its entirety, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's documentation did not establish that he had 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements had been recognized in his field 
of expertise, such that he was one of that small percentage who had risen to the very top of his field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (describing considerations for the 
final merits analysis). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief stating that the Director erred in law and fact and failed to 
consider the totality of the evidence in their analysis. Upon review of the entire record, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that he is one of the few who 
has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. The evidence indicates that the Petitioner has been 
responsible for the construction, operations, and maintenance of financial industry data centers which 
handle transactions of significant worth. The record also includes extensive documentation of the 
Petitioner's national recognition as an expert in his field, including his appointment to and leadership 
of various groups that set national technological standards for China. The totality of the record, 
including the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition, establishes that the Petitioner is one 
of a small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor and that he has the required sustained 
acclaim. Id. 
1 The evidence does not indicate, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
Finally, the record indicates that the Petitioner intends to enter the United States to continue to work 
in his field of expertise and that his entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit 
the United States. As such, he has established his eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28580526 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a swimmer and multisport athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria required for eligibility . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The sole issue on appeal is whether the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In the underlying case, the Petitioner stated that he meets the 
following criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii) Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media; and 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the criteria for lesser awards and published material, 2 
but not those for membership in associations or original contributions. Since the Petitioner only met 
two of the required three initial evidentiary criteria, the Director denied the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter3 stating that his Master of Sports of Ukraine certificate was 
incorrectly considered by the Director as a prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) rather than 
as proof ofhis membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements oftheir members under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).4 According to the appeal statement, this certificate "serves as a document 
showing the proof of association with the Ukrainian Swimming Federation (USF), National Olympic 
Committee of Ukraine (NOC), and Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine ..." and as "proof of 
outstanding achievements as a member of the association in the field for which classification is 
sought." 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires a showing that the Petitioner is a member of an 
association, that this association is in his field of expertise, that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, and that these achievements are judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. Contrary to the Petitioner's statement on appeal, the 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not indicate, that he has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
2 The record supports a finding that the Petitioner meets these two criteria. 
3 The Petitioner stated on Form T-129B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that he would submit a brief and/or additional 
evidence to the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing his appeal. To date, we have not received a brief or additional 
evidence, and so will base our decision on the provided appeal statement and the underlying record of proceedings. 
4 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) for 
original contributions of major significance to his field. As such, we consider the issue to be waived. See, e.g.. Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (finding 
that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived)). 
2 
regulation does not require him to have outstanding achievements while being a member of an 
association in his field. Instead, it requires documentation showing that the association in question 
required outstanding achievements for him to become a member of it in the first place. The Petitioner 
has not made such a showing in this case. 
The record includes extensive documentation regarding the Ukrainian Unified Sports Classification 
system, which awards various titles and degrees based on differing levels of athletic achievement. For 
Olympic sports such as swimming, the highest-ranked titles in this system are, in descending order, 
Honored Master of Sports, which "is awarded to athletes of the highest category," Master of Sports 
International Class, and Master of Sports of Ukraine, which is the Petitioner's title. The latter two 
titles are awarded to athletes "for their compliance with qualifying norms," which vary by sport. In 
the sport of swimming, the Master of Sports International Class is awarded for placing highly in 
international competitions such as the Olympics and world championships, while the Master of Sports 
of Ukraine is awarded for placing highly in Ukrainian national competitions at the junior or senior 
level. Such competitions must be adjudicated by judges "of no lower than the first category." 
As noted by the Director, there is no indication in the record that the title ofMaster of Sports ofUkraine 
constitutes membership in an association. While the Ministry of Youth and Sports awards this title, 
the documentation provided does not state that this title grants athletes membership in the ministry. 
Similarly, the documentation does not state that a Master of Sports of Ukraine title constitutes 
membership in the Ukrainian NOC or USF. Instead, it states that this is an honorary title awarded by 
the Ukrainian government for certain levels of athletic achievement. 
Furthermore, even if the Master of Sports of Ukraine title grants membership in these organizations, 
which the record does not support, the Petitioner still has not established eligibility for this criterion. 
Because the record does not include documentation of the membership requirements of the relevant 
organizations, it does not establish that outstanding achievements in the field of swimming are a 
prerequisite for entry. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he qualifies for 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence ofeither a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals are at the very top 
of their respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of his success in Ukrainian national swimming competitions, much of it at the junior 
level, approximately ten years prior to when the visa petition was filed. Since then, the Petitioner has 
competed at the collegiate level in the United States, qualifying for the 2014 National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA) Division II championships and earning NCAA All-American honors in 
3 
I 2014 by finishin] in 15th place i~ thel !individual medley. He also qualified for the 2017 
Championship,) where he took 12th place. However, the vast majority of his press 
coverage concerns his long-distance swim in thel lin 2011, and he has not otherwise 
established that his achievements have translated to a level of recognition that constitutes sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress for this visa classification. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, pt. 1, at 59 (1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 6739; section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of his field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The petition 
will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 Aquathlon is a multisport competition consisting of swimming and running segments. World Triathlon, Aquathlon, 
https ://www.triathlon.org/mul tisports/ aquathlon. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28580471 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a software engineer and developer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a software engineer and developer, provided evidence to establish his eligibility under 
seven of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(v), (viii), and (ix). 1 The Director 
concluded he met the judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and we agree. On appeal, the 
Petitioner limits his claims to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) (ii), (iii), (viii) and (ix). 2 
Evidence ofmembership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(ii) 
The Petitioner relies on his membership inl Ito satisfy this criterion. The Director concluded that 
..____ _.I is a networking site created to connect companies that contract their work with potential 
freelancing software engineers rather than a professional association, and that the evidence was 
insufficient to show that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that I lis "an elite network for the world's best" software 
developer talents, servilg morel than 10,000 clients, including Fortune 500 companies. Furthermore, 
he argues that because gets more than 100,000 applications and uses a rigorous selection 
process in which less than three percent of applicants are chosen, the organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. 
1 As the Petitioner did not claim to meet the remaining criteria , we will not address them here. 
2 We, therefore, consider the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v) to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)) (standing for the 
proposition that an issue not raised on appeal is waived.) 
2 
I The Petitioner provided an article about I I founder titled, "Dropout turned entrepreneur helps 
find talent amid engineer squeeze," explaining that he founded the company to create a "network that 
connects fl the wlorld's top talent with tech companies globally, on demand." He goes on to explainl 
that with he has created a "cloudl Iwhere the talent caliber is that of1 
lor even Israeli talent, but it is virtual." Furthermore, he explains that he aims through his 
company to match employers to those talented "engineers ... who live in a small city ... [and] allow[] 
them to stay at home but get the big jobs anyway." In essence,! lis an employment agency and 
the Petitioner has not established that such an agency, regardless of the caliber of the talent, qualifies 
as a professional association. 3 
According to the Petitioner,! I"[ c ]andidates must be able to read, write, and speak English 
extremely well" and be "passionate and driven individuals who are hands-on and folly engaged in 
their work." They "are then assessed for technical knowledge and problem-solvTg skills, and only 
candidates with 'exceptional results' are accepted." While we acknowledge that 1selection 
process appears to be strenuous and that the company is attracting high skilled information technology 
(IT) professionals, it is insufficient to establish that I I selection process requires "outstanding 
achievements of their members." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. The Petitioner 
provides his I Iprofile which emphasizes his years of experience, portfolio, location, and specifies 
the multiple IT languages and technologies he uses. While the Petitioner's skillset is extensive and 
impressive, I I profile does not highlight any "outstanding achievements" of his or appear to 
require any particular achievements beyond his selection and marketable job skills for employment in 
the IT field. Additionally, because the nature of the Petitioner's relationship with I lis that of an 
agent-talent, and not as a "member" in a professional association, the evidence is insufficient to meet 
the plain language of the criterion. Id. 
We note that although the Petitioner's selection byl lis not sufficient to meet this criterion, his 
selection could be considered in a final merits determination under the second step in Kazarian 's 
analytical framework, where we consider whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Evidence of published material about the individual in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for which 
class[fication is sought. Such evidence must include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the online news article appearing inl lmeets this criterion 
because the article was about him andl I ualifies as ma·or media. We acknowled e that this 
article 
is about the Petitioner. However, the article does not meet the plain language of ~------~ the regulation, which requires that the published material include the title, date, and author of the 
material. See 8 CFR § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). While the article has a date and title, there is no identified 
author. 
3 For example, a scientific society dedicated to artificial intelligence, would likely qualify as a professional association. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 2.B(l)(criterion 2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
Evidence that the person has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3 )(ix) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to others working in the field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 2.B(l )( criterion 9), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-rnanual. Furthermore, relevant caselaw has confirmed that "in relation 
to others in the field" should be interpreted as allowing comparisons to those employed in the same 
occupation at a similar level. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensernen). 
The Petitioner asserts that his 2022 wages of $144,800 (which is equivalent to 25,629,600 Argentine 
pesos) as a consultaT is higl in relation to other IT developers in Argentina. He provides an online 
article published on .corn, which cites to a report published by the Ministry of Economic 
Development and Production for the city of1 Istating that in Argentina, the average salary 
for IT developers in general is 315,612 Argentine pesos and the market average is 209,309 Argentine 
pesos. Although the article cites to salary information from a government report, the report itself has 
not been provided, and therefore, we are unable to ascertain the basis for the salary information, its 
validity, and the specific occupation(s) it covers. Without this relevant information, the evidence 
remains insufficient to meet this criterion. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Evidence that the person has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding this criterion 
because he has not demonstrated his eligibility under at least two other criteria and is therefore unable 
to reach the requisite minimum of at least three criteria under step one of Kazarian 's analytical 
framework. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to 
make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
4 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 