U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-O-O-S-S-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a law firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which she must meet at least three. In addition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary will continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that the Beneficiary fulfills at least three of the ten 
criteria.1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 The Petitioner does not address the Director's issue relating to the Beneficiary's intent to continue to work in her area of 
extraordinary ability. 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner submitted a statemer from the Beneficiary claiming that she has worked as a geologist 
at I lin the I since April 2017.2 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Beneficiary reviewed manuscripts for scientific journals. 
In addition, she authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
Further, we find that the Petitioner demonstrated published material about the Beneficiary in 
professional publications, satisfying the published material criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 The record does not contain any independent, supporting evidence confirming the Beneficiary's employment. 
2 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets three criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim4 and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 5 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting the Beneficiary's academic history. 
Specifically, the Beneficiary received her bachelor's degree from I I University in 2003, her 
master's degree froml !University in 2006, and her doctorate degree from the University of I lin 2014. Moreover, as indicated earlier, the Beneficiary claimed to be working as a geologist 
for ,1 I in thd I since 201 7' as Tell as prvious employment at the l I 
Institute I I for Resource Technology" in Germany. 6 As mentioned above, 
professional publications produced material about the Beneficiary, she judged the work of others 
within her field, and she authored scholarly articles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that 
her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published material about the Beneficiary, the Petitioner offered four articles in professional 
publications. Specifically, the Petitioner submitted an article (2011) from the University ofl I 
Faculty of Geo-I11formation Science and Earth Observation (ITC) News about the Beneficiary 
receiving a travel grant and presenting at a conference. Moreover, the Petitioner provided two articles 
(2011 and2014) from the International Association for Mathematical Geosciences (IAMG) Newsletter 
indicating the Beneficiary's travel award and conference and reporting on her recruitment of new 
IAMG members to ITC. Further, the Petitioner supplied an article (2014) from the Geological Remote 
Sensing Group (GRSG) Newsletter reporting on the Beneficiary's defense of her Ph.D. dissertation. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate 
the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
6The P~did not provide any corroborating evidence relating to the Beneficiary's employment with ·I .... __ _, 
Institutl____Jg for Resource Techuology." 
3 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that four articles published about the Beneficiary are 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary's overall press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that four articles, published in 2011 and 2014, reflect a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Furthermore, the newsletters reflect coverage of the Beneficiary limited to the associations or 
universities while studying for her higher education degrees rather than widespread reporting on her 
accomplishments in the field showing sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 
1991 ). 7 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that its submission of four articles meets this very high 
standard. 
As it pertains to her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 8 The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that the Beneficiary served as a reviewer for the Arabian Journal of Geosciences, 
the International Journal of Applied Earth Observations and Geoi11formation, the International 
Journal of Geographical Information Science, and the American Association of Petroleum Geologists 
Bulletin, as well as on a panel judging theses at ITC and evaluating abstracts at the European 
Geoscience Union annual conference. 9 However, the Petitioner did not establish that her judging 
instances places her among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to others at the 
very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging occurrences contribute to a finding that 
she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress or indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the 
field based on her work as a manuscript, thesis, or abstract reviewer. 
7 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
8 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
9 The Petitioner did not demonstrate the number of manuscripts, theses, or abstracts reviewed by the Beneficiary, nor did 
it document when they all occurred. 
4 
Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-
Moreover, serving on a judging committee or in the peer review process does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as 
evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests 
relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired 
technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
peer review experience places her among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the publication ofresearch does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 10 Here, 
the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored six articles that were 
published in professional journals between 2006 and 2014, as well as three abstracts from conference 
proceedings. 11 However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent 
with having a "career of acclaimed work" or qualifies for this "very high standard." See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's 
authorship of six published articles is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In addition, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary 
has sustained national or international acclaim as her most recent article was last published in 2014. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other geologists have been influenced by her 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that the 
Beneficiary's articles garnered 110 citations and her conference abstracts received 4 citations. While 
the Beneficiary's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed her work, 
the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in 
the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to the Beneficiary's research 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare the Beneficiary's authored 
works to others in her field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in her field. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
10 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
11 The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary authored five additional articles; however, it did not demonstrate whether they 
were ever published. 
5 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
As it relates to awards, the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility based on her receipt of a 
"2011 I I Grant A ward" from the International Association of Mathematical Geosciences 
(IAMG), "2012 Grant Award" from IAMG, and "2013 .__ _____ _. 
Scholarship" from the University ofl ~ Scholarship Program. Although scholarships, grants, 
or fellowships may be recognized in academia, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such financial 
aid fonding is tantamount to nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor, geology. In addition, awards won by the Beneficiary competing 
against other students do not indicate that she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for immigrant 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In addition, even considering that the Beneficiary received her last financial 
aid grant approximately five years ago, the Petitioner did not show that it is representative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's membership with IAMG between 2011 
and 2013. However, the record demonstrates that this association is generally open to "geoscientists, 
statisticians, and other interested individuals or organizations." Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary's membership with a single association represents an individual who is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not show that the Beneficiary's membership with IAMG approximately five years ago resulted in 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§204.5(h)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that summarized the Beneficiary' work 
and contributions in the field. The letters, however, do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary is viewed 
by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary has made impactfol or influential contributions to her field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field," garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserted that the Benefic~ed a critical role to IAMG by serving as the 
chair for the student chapter at the University ofL___j However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's role was reflective of: or resulted in, widespread acclaim from her field or that 
she is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, 
the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary held leading or critical roles for organizations or 
establishments with distingyished reputations, nor does it show that her role for the IAMG student 
chapter at the University ofl lover four years ago represents sustained national or international 
acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
6 
Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Moreover, as discussed above, the Petitioner barely documented the 
Beneficiary's accomplishments or achievements since 2014. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 12 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition 
proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-, ID# 4250421 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
12 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act 
we need not consider whether she intends to continue working in her area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-A-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents previously submitted documentation and a brief, arguing that she 
fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievement s have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of J-A-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously performed as singer for the bands,I I andl I and 
indicates current employment with thel I Because she has not indicated or established 
that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). However, for the reasons discussed later, 
the record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated her eligibility for the published material 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she fulfills six additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on receiving a "Gold Record A ward" for selling 
20,000 copies of an album while a member ofl I The record contains a photograph of the 
2 
Matter of J-A-A-
"Gold Record Award" issued by the band's record company,.__ ________ ___, In addition, 
the Petitioner submitted! l's compact disc and Jhotographs of the band's performance of a 
song on a Filipino television show, 'I !" 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
her evidence shows that the field recognizes the record company's award as a national or international 
award for excellence. 4 Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that.__ _________ _. s 
"Gold Record Award" is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on being "a contract artist and/or 
member" ofl las a lead vocalist forl I as well as a lead singer fog 
and I I The record reflects that the Petitioner provided a document fro 
Bcertifying the Petitioner's employment as a contract artist order while a member of 
In addition, she submitted screenshots from.__ ______ ___, highlighting another artist. Further, 
she presented employment letters relating to her performances with the I I at several 
venues, such as hotels, pubs, and cafes. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner must show that membership 
in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that employment withl I as a contract artist constitutes "membership" in an 
association. Moreover, the Petitioner also claims her I I employment qualifies as a 
leading or critical role under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct 
1 The Petitioner claimed that'---------~ later became._! _____ _. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (instructing that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution. for example. may have little national or international significance). 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Matter of J-A-A-
criterion that will be discussed later. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet 
at least three separate criteria, we will generally not consider evidence to the leading or critical role 
criterion. 
In addition, although the Petitioner's evidence demonstrates her membership with the bands, she did 
not show how her evidence reflects that outstanding achievements are required for band membership. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the individuals responsible for judging the membership 
candidates are comprised ofrecognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying 
published material and explaining her determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 6 Because the Petitioner did not 
establish that her evidence meets the regulatory requirements of this criterion, discussed below, we 
will withdraw the findings of the Director. 
At the outset, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted advertisements and flyers forl 
I ~s concerts, including ads in publications such as Bandwidth, Okinawa Marine, an~d_R_c_n_·i-an~ 
Analisa. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how such marketing materials for the band 
reflect published material about her. 7 In addition, she did not offer evidence showing that the 
publications qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. 8 Further, the Petitioner did not include the required title, date, and author of 
the material. 
Moreover, the Petitioner presented an article entitled, .__ ________________ __. 
published in the Saipan Tribune. The article, however, relates to the band and its upcoming 
performance rather than published material about the Petitioner. In fact, the Petitioner is mentioned 
only one time as being one of the band members. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide evidence showing that the Saipan Tribune is a professional 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that marketing materials created for the purpose of 
selling products or promoting services are not generally considered to be published material about the petitioner). 
8 Id. (providing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the petitioner should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and show the intended audience). 
4 
Matter of J-A-A-
or major trade publication or other major medium. In addition, the Petitioner did not include the 
required author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from abs-cbnnews.com reflecting the posting of 
'! I" itj I 2013. The Petitioner, however, did not 
establish how a video ofl l's performance qualifies as published material about her. Moreover, 
the Petitioner did not establish that abs-cbnnews.com represents a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Also, she did not include the required author of the material. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted al 12007 article reflecting published material about her 
in Beach Road Magazine. 9 However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence demonstrating that the 
magazine is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not include the required title and author of the article. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. Therefore, 
we withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she participated as a judge for singing contests at an elementary 
and high school. Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner performed as a singer for three bands in concert at various 
venues, such as hotels, resorts, and pubs. Therefore, the Petitioner established that she satisfies this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues that she fulfills this criterion based on her role as a "leading vocalist" with 111 0 I andl l as well as a "talent/artist/member" ofl I ~ As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or establishment's activities. It is not 
9 The record also contains a copy of a cover and table of contents for Beach Road Magazine for anl 12007 article 
entitled, I I" However, the Petitioner did not submit the article and include the author. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the a1iicle represents published material about her in a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of J-A-A-
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 11 
As it relates to her role with I I and thd I the Petitioner submitted sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that she performed in a leading role. Specifically, the Petitioner served as one 
of three band members for I I and performed as the leading vocalist for the I I 
However, she did not establish that the bands enjoy distinguished reputations. 12 While the Petitioner 
submitted evidence indicating thatl lsold 20,000 copies of its album, she did not explain how 
such receipts indicatd ts eminent status. She did not, for example, distinguish the band from 
others or differentiate its achievements or accomplishments. 
As it pertains to.__ _____ --., the Petitioner provided letters and contracts verifying its 
performances at various locations, such as the Philippines, Mariana Islands, and Malaysia. However, 
the Petitioner did not show how the performances reflect the band's reputation. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not demonstrate that the band garnered significant media coverage or sold out venues 
establishing that its performances resulted in a distinguished reputation. 
Moreover, regarding her role with I I, the Petitioner did not show that she performed 
in a leading or critical role. In fact, the Petitioner provided only one letter fro~ I food 
and beverage manager for thel I Philippines, who confirmed her employment 
with the band as a singer. The letter does not provide specific details explaining her duties or showing 
how she contributed to the success or standing of the band. 13 In addition, the Petitioner did not offer 
evidence establishing that the band garnered a distinguished reputation. 
Regarding I [ as discussed under the membership criterion, the Petitioner submitted 
an employment certification confirming her contract as an artist while a member ofl I. The 
Petitioner, however, did not establish how her role as a band member reflected her performance in a 
leading or critical role for~~----~as a whole. She did not show, for example, how her role 
qualified for a leadership position or that she significantly impacted the company's activities or 
outcomes overall. Further, while the record contains screenshots from I I about 
another artist, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the company's standing or excellent reputation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
11 Id. 
12 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence. distinction. 
or excellence). 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
Matter of J-A-A-
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner contends that her receipt of a "Gold Record Award" for selling 20,000 copies of I l's album "is of such magnitude to be simply considered a commercial success." The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, "as 
shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." Moreover, the evidence 
must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 14 Although the Petitioner 
demonstrated thau Is album sold 20,000 copies, she did not show the significance or relevance 
of the figures. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that such sales numbers qualify as a "commercial 
success" in the Philippines consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
7 
Matter of J-A-A-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-A-A-, ID# 1576701 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a music composer and trombonist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievement s have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospecti vely the 
United States. 
Matter of J-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only the judging 
and artistic display criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), respectively. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner judged singing competitions and performed at music festivals. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's decision for these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfies two additional regulatory criteria, discussed 
below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a 
finding that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role as a trombonist for the 
Georgian! l For a leading role, the evidence must establish 
that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
2 
Matter of J-T-
role is or was, in fact, leading. 1 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a 
petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization 
or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the 
role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 2 
The record includes three letters of support from.__ _______ _. general many er of tlhe Georgia 
.__ _______ __. stating that the Petitioner "was the solo trombone player" of from 2012 
until March 2017 and that the orchestra performed his musical arrangements. The Director determined 
that this information was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner had performed in a leading or 
critical role fo~ I 
With the appeal, the Petitioner offers additional letters of support from various Georgian musicians 
discussing his role for I ~ 3 These letters all indicate that the Petitioner performed as solo 
trombonist for the orchestra from "2014-2017." For instance, the letter froml I 
professor of classical music at I !Conservatory, noted that the Petitioner "earned his place" 
with I I in 2014. Regarding the years the Petitioner performed with I I the information in the 
letters of support presented on appeal contradicts the information in the three letters from ~ I I asserting that the Petitioner was a solo trombonist beginning in 2012. The Petitioner 
must resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner has not explained 
or rectified the inconsistency relating to the actual years when he performed forl I 
Re,ardles!' the information in the letters of support is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's role 
for was leading or critical. For example,.__ ______ _. principal composer, chief 
conductor, and artistic director ofl I asserted that the Petitioner "was the only solo trombonist" 
and "played a crucial role within our organization." WhilP-1 I farther stated that the 
Petitioner's "technique as a trombonist was unique and allowed us to play works with important solo 
trombone parts or important trombone parts that we would not have otherwise attempted," he did not 
sufficiently explain how the Petitioner's position was a leading role to s lavera)) Tof significant 
importance to the orchestra's success or standing in the field. In addition,.__ ___ ___.did not discuss 
the Petitioner's position within orchestra's organizational hierarchy, and indicate how his role 
compared to the other musicians ( such as concertmaster or other section leaders) to demonstrate that 
it was a leading one. 
Furthermore, I I a solo oboist with the I I State Opera Orchestra," contended 
that the Petitioner's "role in I I is a critical one." In the same manner as I I D 
I I explained that the Petitioner's role is critical because "the orchestra would likel):'. not 
perform a number of serious works" without him. The aforementioned letters from ~ 
I 11 I and~ _____ __, however do not adequately explain how the 
Petitioner has influenced the overall reputation or status ofE:::j to show his role was critical. Nor 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
2 Id. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
Matter of J-T-
do any of remaining letters of support provide sufficient information indicating how the Petitioner 
contributed to that organization's success or standing in the music field so as to demonstrate a critical 
role. Moreover, while the appellate submission includes promotional material listing the Petitioner as 
trombonist at various concerts, the record does not show that these performances constituted a leading 
or critical role for I I overall. 
Finally, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the organizations or establishments to 
have a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 4 The 
Petitioner submitted information aboutl lfrom its website, but this information is not sufficient 
to demonstrate that the orchestra has distinguished reputation in the music field. USCIS need not rely 
on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ctf'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 
(C.A.9). In addition, the appellate submission includes articles and information about Bjork, a singer­
songwriter from Iceland, in Vogue, Georgia Today, Georgian Journal, IMDb.com, and Wikipedia. 5 
The articles in Vogue, Georgia Today, and Georgian Journal briefly mention that Bjork performed 
wit~ I but they do not discuss the reputation ofl I or its eminence in the field. The Petitioner 
also provides letters of support from various Georgian musicians asserting that I I has a 
~uished reputation. For instance,! I chairman of the Georgian! I 
l_____Jcontends that I lis "the most prestigious orchestra in our nation, and indeed, renowned in 
the world." However, the record does not include sufficient evidence to corroborate the information 
in the letters of support or otherwise show thatl I has distinguished reputation relative to other 
orchestras. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner presented a June 2015 service agreement from D I !Musical Studio for providing musical arrangements at three concerts for compensation of 
3,500 GEL. In addition, he submitted a June 2014 employment contract from I I 
I I reflecting a monthly salary of 3,500 GEL for his services as a "music arranger and solo trombone 
player." On appeal, the Petitioner provides his bank statements reflecting monthly incoming monetary 
transfers of3,200 GEL from 2014-2017. 
The record also includes information from the National Statistics Office of Georgia (NSOG) listing an 
"average" monthly salary of 624.9 GEL in 2015 for workers grouped in "the National Classification of 
'Entertainment Activities."' This broad category of arts occupations includes "[a]ctivities in the field of 
performing arts[,] ensembles and theaters, orchestras and musical groups, actors, directors, musicians, 
authors, conferences, sculptors, artists, cartoonists, engravings, artists, theatrical artists, decorators and 
actors." The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not just a salary that is above average 
for artists in the "Entertainment Activities" classification. Because the aforementioned contracts enlisted 
the Petitioner's services as a music arranger or trombone player, offering salary information for a broad 
range of occupations in the Georgian entertainment industry does not provide an appropriate basis for 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10-11. 
5 The information from IMDb.com and Wikipedia relates only to Bjork and does not mentiorl._ _ __. 
4 
Matter of J-T-
comparison in demonstrating that his compensation constitutes a high salary relative to "others in the 
field." 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the salary information he presented from NSOG constitutes an appropriate 
basis for comparison. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance and recognition of his work are indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-T-, ID# 4312187 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-L-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an "alien of extraordinary ability" in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3), which requires documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he would continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
In his appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director erred in finding he did not meet the initial evidence 
requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3) . The Petitioner further states that the evidence 
demonstrates his standing as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of A-L-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been a competitive athlete, instructor, referee, and judge in 
several martial arts forms including kung fo, wushu, karate, and tai chi. He seeks to continue his work 
as a martial arts instructor in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any 
of the ten criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). For the reasons discussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the 
initial evidentiary requirements. 
1 We note that the Petitioner states on appeal that his gold medal at the 2017~Martial Artsl !Championship 
is "comparable to a Nobel prize or other internationally recognized award," but he does not specifically claim that it 
satisfies the one-time achievement criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(h)(3). Rather, the Petitioner submitted the award as 
evidence of his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We briefly note that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4) does 
not allow for submission of "comparable evidence" relating to the one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor does the record demonstrate that the noted award qualifies as such an achievement. 
2 
Matter of A-L-S-
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's awards received as a competitive martial 
arts athlete, but declined to consider these since the Petitioner is petitioning as a martial arts instructor. 
We disagree with the Director's analysis and will consider this evidence. 2 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he received a gold medal at the 2017 D I l Martial Arts Championship held in I 13 The record includes what appears to be an 
official event photograph of the Petitioner with a medal, on which he is identified as the 'I I 
c=JGold Medalist." Based on the limited information provided by this document, this event was 
sponsored by~---------------~~ The record does not contain any other 
evidence related to this event or to the Petitioner's performance in the event, such as official results, a 
list of competitors, the event's entrance requirements or rules, or media coverage of the event. 
The language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to 
establish every element of this criterion. The record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's win 
at the 20171 I event constitutes his receipt of a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence that referenced his gold medal at thi.,....,.................. This 
evidence included a letter from his current employer J I Law College in which 
notes that his award is "a noteworthy and exemplary achievement as he is the first.__ _____ ____. 
to bag this Gold Medal in the history of I I Martial Arts Championship." The Petitioner also 
submitted a letter from the Rotary Club of I l where he teaches tai chi on a voluntary basis. 
The club's secretary references the 201 7 gold medal and notes that the Petitioner "is the first person 
from our country to get this top award." However, these statements from individuals who know the 
Petitioner personally but have not claimed or established expertise in martial arts are insufficient to 
establish that he won a nationally or internationally recognized award. 
2 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and 
has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider 
the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM chapter 22.22( i)( I)( C) ( emphasis in original). 
3 The Petitioner submitted documentation of two other awards that he received as a competitive athlete but he has neither 
claimed nor provided evidence that these are lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the 
field. One is a "Certificate of Merit Pa11icipation" indicating tha~ awarded first place in the "Kata" category at the 
199 ,.__ _______ _. Karate Championship held at theL__JAcademy of Martial Arts at the age of 13. The 
other is a certificate indicating his first place medal in the I I at The ~-------....,,...... 
Taekwondo Championships held inl I in 2004. Neither award was accompanied by any additional 
evidence that would establish that they are nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
3 
Matter of A-L-S-
For example, he has not shown that his win attracted the level of media attention that might indicate 
the award's national or international recognition. Moreover, he has not submitted information about 
the individuals who participated in the event, including their caliber and skill level, which might reveal 
the prestige and recognition of the competition. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 
supra, 6 (providing that for this criterion we should consider "[t]he number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors" and that "an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution ... may have little national or international significance"). 
The Petitioner also submitted two letters, one from thel I Full Contact Association, 
and one from thd IN ational Sports Council, which refer to the Petitioner's receipt of a gold medal 
in thq I Championship held inl 12017. However, the only corroborating 
evidence provided is an "International Certificate" issued to him for participation in this event as a 
referee. A letter from the event sponsor, thel ~, confirms that 
the Petitioner was invited to serve as a judge at the event and to perform a demonstration for the closing 
ceremony. Thel Is statement indicates he was awarded a gold medal "as a [t]oken of 
[a]ppreciation." Therefore, evidence does not establish that the Petitioner earned a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence at this event. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner initially submitted certificates of his qualifications issued by the 
World United Martial Arts Federation (WUMA). These certificates indicate that he was recognized 
as a Class A WUMA International Referee, a 3rd degree black sash in kung fu, and a 2nd degree black 
belt as a wushu instructor. These certificates do not equate to nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The certificates establish that the Petitioner earned these 
ranks based on his successful completion of a required skills test or examination, but he has not 
established that these rank certificates constitute either prizes or awards, nor has he submitted 
documentation, such as media reports, demonstrating that his rankings have received national or 
international recognition. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that satisfies this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner gat he submitted evidence that he is the General Secretary of the WUMA Kung 
Fu Associatio the Vice President of thd , lw orld Martial Arts Association; an honorary 
member of the Goju-Kai Karate Association; and a member of the I 1 I Kyokushin 
Karate Association. 4 The Petitioner asserts that this evidence was not properly evaluated. In order to 
4 The submitted documentation indicates that the Petitioner was approved as a "Lifelong Member" in the~I ---~ 
Kyokushkin Karate Association in November 2018, ten months after he filed this petition. Therefore, this evidence cannot 
establish his eligibility at the time of filing and we will not further address it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). For the same, 
reason, we will not consider evidence indicating that the Petitioner was appointed as an honorary member of the World 
Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in October 2018. A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
4 
Matter of A-L-S-
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an assocrnt10n, and that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I Administrative Officer of the Association Co­
ordination Section of thel , INational Sports Coun~il. He confirms that the Petitioner was formerly 
the "Founder General Secretary" of the I IWUMA King Fu Association and is currently a vice 
president of that association. I I mentions the Petitioner's experience as an athlete, referee, 
and judge at various martial arts competitions, and states that he is "a valued extraordinary player, 
trainer, Judge and official." However, while the record confirms the Petitioner's roles as both general 
secretary and, later, vice president of the I I WUMA Kung Fu Association, neither this letter nor 
the other evidence in the record mentions the membership requirements for this association to show 
that it requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner states that a "letter dated 11/06/2018 from the National Sports Council" indicates that 
he is "Vice President ofthel !World Martial Arts Association." However, the evidence does not 
establish that the I I WUMA Kung Fu Association" and the I !World Martial Arts 
Association" are two different associations. In fact the referenced letter states that the Petitioner was 
elected vice president ofl IWUMA Kung-Fu Association as of March 2018. We note that the 
Petitioner submitted little other information about the association. The record reflects that WUMA 
Kung Fu Associatiotj lwas designated the National Martial Arts Committee (NMAC) , I 
by the World Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in January 2017, but without evidence of the 
association's membership requirements and selection criteria, we cannot determine that the 
Petitioner's officer roles with this association meet the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the Secretary General ofD Goju-kai Karate-do Association 
along with a "Certificate of Honorary Member" issued by this organization. The letter states that the 
Petitioner was recommended for honorary membership by the "National Specialist Selection 
Committee of Sports" with a full quorum of three members, and approved by the Central Executive 
Committee. The letter mentions the Petitioner's "outstanding success and extraordinary achievement 
in the field of Martial Arts." However, the Petitioner provided insufficient independent evidence of 
the membership requirements for this association and the record does not establish that membership 
qualifications are judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For these reasons the Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of lzummi, 22 T&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing 
Matter of Bardouille, 18 l&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981 ), further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into 
being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
Matter of A-L-S-
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director did not directly address the published materials in his decision, although the Petitioner 
initially claimed he was submitting evidence to meet this criterion. The Director, citing to Matter of 
Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550 (BIA 1976), did not consider the evidence because the submitted certificate 
of translation did not accompany the translated documents or certify the translations as complete. 
We have reviewed the published materials and note that even if the Director had found that the 
submitted certificate of translation was sufficient, the submitted evidence would not meet this 
criterion. The Petitioner submitted 24 articles published inl I newspapers Rajdhani, Annapurna, 
Himalaya Times, Gorkhapatra, Naya Patrika, Nepal Samarchar Patra, and Commander Post. While 
most of the articles briefly mention the Petitioner, none of them are about him. For example, many of 
the articles are identical in content and note that the Petitioner participated alongside 21 others in a 
two day seminar for kung fu instructors which was organized b~ I WUMA Kung Fu Association. 
Other articles note the achievements of students at the academy where the Petitioner works as an 
instructor and note that he served as the team trainer, while others reported that the I IWUMA 
Kung Fu Association traveled to Bangkok for the First World Martial Arts Competition with the 
Petitioner as their team leader. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We also note that none 
of the submitted articles identify the author of the material, as required by the regulations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide documentation demonstrating that any of these newspapers 
are considered professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, noting that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that identified him as a "referee" and testimonial evidence regarding his 
performance as a judge that was not corroborated by other evidence in the record. We disagree and 
find that the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he meets this criterion. 
The evidence confirms the Petitioner's participation as a judge at the aforementioned I I Open 
Championship where, according to the I lpresident, he "served as a judge for several fights that 
were being held." The Petitioner also submitted an invitation letter, a certificate, and a letter from the 
WMAC confirming his role as a "Judge in forms and kickboxing categories" at the 20161 I Martial 
Arts I lheld inl l The corroborated evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge 
of the work of others was not limited to these two events. 
Therefore, the evidence sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
6 
Matter of A-L-S-
C. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not folly 
address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does 
not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the 
classification sought. 6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his athletic accomplishments is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act, we need not determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability" under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and will not address the Director's separate finding with respect 
to that issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-L-S-, ID# 5107649 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
6 This review included consideration of testimonial evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatory 
criterion, such as reference letters from the Petitioner's current and former students and references from professional 
associates familiar with the Petitioner's skills as a martial artist. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 1, 2024 In Re: 33669009 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify himself as "an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of Stage 
Construction and Engineering as it applies to Art, Theatre, and Film Production." See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. Although the Director concluded 
that the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Director determined that, in the alternative, the record satisfies 
at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. However, the Director ultimately concluded that the 
record does not establish sustained national or international acclaim and that the Petitioner is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ non citizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ non citizen]' s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Additionally, if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's 
occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement ofa major, internationally recognized award; however, the Director determined that, 
in the alternative, the record satisfies at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that the record satisfies the plain language of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), and (viii); however, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vii), and (ix). The Director noted that the Petitioner did not 
assert that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (iv), and (x). The Director 
concluded, upon examining the evidence presented in its entirety for the final merits determination 
addressed in Kazarian, that the record does not show sustained national or international acclaim or 
that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
(vii), and (ix), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), and (viii). The Petitioner 
does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (iv), or 
(x), thereby waiving these criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) 
(citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). Moreover, the 
Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record shows both sustained national or international 
acclaim and that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of the field of endeavor. See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
Instead, on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich 1994) 
instructs that, upon satisfying at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), "the 
2 
[P]etitioner should be deemed qualified, and the burden shifts onto [USCIS] to reject the evidence that 
meet the criteria, if suppose, it finds that the evidence was fraudulent or too dated and stale." The 
Petitioner summarizes Kazarian with directly conflicting statements that "[t]he Kazarian case contains 
no mention of a 'final merits determination' nor any discussion of what such a determination might 
entail" while also acknowledging, two sentences later, that "the Kazarian decision in the Ninth Circuit 
mentions the concept of a 'final merits determination' exactly twice." 
We need not address whether the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vii), and 
(ix), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), and (viii) because, in any event, the 
Petitioner does not establish on appeal how the record shows both sustained national or international 
acclaim and that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top ofthe field of endeavor, which 
is the Director's basis for denying the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
We first note that the Petitioner does not clarify how Buletini, a district court case published within 
the Sixth Circuit in 1994, may supersede Kazarian, a circuit court case published in 2010 within the 
Ninth Circuit-wherein the Petitioner resides. See, e.g., Matter ofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715, 718-20 
(BIA 1993) ( contrasting the precedential value of circuit court cases for matters arising therein from 
the non-precedential value of district court cases, especially district court cases within other circuits). 
Moreover, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization of 
the adjudication process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates that 
the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria and 
still not meet the extraordinary ability standard ifUSCIS provides specific and substantiated reasoning 
for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject at any time 
the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it establishes a 
Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification. 
We next note that the Petitioner mischaracterizes the extent to which Kazarian not only acknowledges 
but also articulates the requisite two steps of analysis for a request for classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )( A) of the Act. The Ninth Circuit began by noting that 
a petitioner may satisfy initial evidentiary criteria by establishing receipt of a one-time achievement 
of a major, internationally recognized award, or through at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Ninth Circuit continued, stating: 
If a petitioner has submitted the requisite evidence, USCIS determines whether the 
evidence demonstrates both a "level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of 
that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the[ir] field of endeavor," 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), and "that the [individual] has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Only [individuals] whose achievements have 
garnered "sustained national or international acclaim" are eligible for an "extraordinary 
ability" visa. 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A)(i). 
3 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In addition to acknowledging that the analysis for a request for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability entails a two-step process, specifically citing 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3) as the basis for such a process, the 
Ninth Circuit itself declined to conduct the second step of the analysis because the individual in that 
case did not satisfy the first step. Specifically, the Ninth Circuit determined that the record in that case 
satisfied only two of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and it concluded the following: 
Whether an applicant for an extraordinary visa [sic] presents two types of evidence or 
none, the proper procedure is to count the types of evidence provided (which the AAO 
did), and the proper conclusion is that the applicant has failed to satisfy the regulatory 
requirement of three types of evidence (as the AAO concluded). 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)). The Kazarian court then declined to 
conduct the second part of the analysis for that case by omitting a discussion of whether the record 
shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, because that petitioner did not satisfy the 
initial evidentiary requirements. Id. 
Here, the Director found that the record satisfies the plain language of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), and (viii). Thus, the primary issue on appeal is whether the Director erred by 
concluding that the totality of the evidence does not show both sustained national or international 
acclaim and that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not clarify how the Director erred in concluding the record does not 
satisfy both of those requirements. 
Black's Law Dictionary defines "sustain" as "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of 
time" or "to persist in making (an effort) over a long period oftime." Sustain, Black's Law Dictionary 
(11th ed. 2019). In general, the record contains limited information pertinent to any particular 
criterion, which does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has supported or maintained any level of 
acclaim he may have earned in any particular capacity, especially over a long period of time. For 
example, the copies of published material about the Petitioner, as contemplated by the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), are limited to 2023 and 2024, shortly before the Petitioner filed the Form 
I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers; thus, they are not supported or maintained especially 
over a long period of time. Se id. The record establishes that the Petitioner published one article in 
1990, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). However, the record does not 
establish how publishing a single article demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor, or how he may have sustained whatever acclaim he may have 
garnered by publishing that article in the decades leading up to the Form I-140 filing date. Relatedly, 
as the Director noted, the record does not establish that any other individual in the field has cited the 
article the Petitioner published, indicating an absence of notoriety by virtue of having published that 
article. In turn, the Petitioner's leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a 
distinguished reputation, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), appears to 
be limited to 2014, without evidence of how the Petitioner may have sustained any acclaim acquired 
thereby. See id. 
4 
Although the record establishes that the Petitioner has made contributions of significance to his 
employers over a sustained period, it does not establish how the Petitioner has made contributions of 
major significance in the broader "field of Stage Construction and Engineering as it applies to Art, 
Theatre, and Film Production," as the Petitioner described the field in question, as contemplated by 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We note that, on appeal, the Petitioner discusses projects 
unrelated to art, theatre, and film production, such as a "[u]nique engineering project for the new 
research station and a "[m ]obi le [ w ]orkshop for 
The record does not establish the materiality of these projects to art, theatre, and 
film production. Without establishing how the Petitioner's contributions are of major significance in 
the in the broader "field of Stage Construction and Engineering as it applies to Art, Theatre, and Film 
Production," beyond significance to his employers, the record does not establish how his contributions 
demonstrate that the Petitioner may be among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In tum, as the Director explained, because the record does not contain probative evidence of the 
salaries or other remuneration of others in the field, the record does not satisfy the plain language of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), contemplating "[e ]vidence that the [individual] has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in 
the field." Moreover, without establishing whether the salary or other remuneration the Petitioner has 
received is high in relation to others in the field, the record also does not establish how the salary or 
other remuneration the Petitioner has received may demonstrate that the Petitioner may be among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Because the Petitioner does not establish on appeal that the totality of the material provided shows 
both sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, the Petitioner is not eligible for the requested 
classification. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, the 
totality of the record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 1, 2024 In Re: 33908198 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In Parts 5 and 6 of the Form 1-140, under "Additional Information About the Petitioner" and "Basic 
Information About the Proposed Employment," the Petitioner listed his "Occupation" as "Aquatic Coach 
-Instructor" and his "Job Title" as "Head Coach -Instructor." Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed to have satisfied the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the original 
contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the leading or critical role 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), and the 
commercial successes in the performing arts criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of them. The Director stated that 
the Petitioner did not make it clear which evidence should be reviewed for each ofthe claimed criteria. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the aforementioned criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (v), (viii), (ix), and (x). He further states: "[I]f the above standards don't readily 
apply to the alien's occupation, the alien may submit comparable evidence to establish the alien's 
eligibility. Through this new filing with new fee, the record will show that at least three of the 
requirements above have been directly met or with comparable evidence now introduced." The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable 
evidence to establish eligibility, if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the 
regulations do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner's appeal brief, however, 
does not offer arguments indicating which of the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to his 
occupation. Nor has he demonstrated which of his "evidence now introduced" is truly comparable to 
any specific evidentiary criterion listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 The Director explained "[t]here are no bookmarks, clips, tabs, annotations that would allow USCIS to carefully review 
the evidence to determine if the Petitioner satisfied the requirements for each criterion. USCIS may not assume which 
evidence goes where and which evidence should be evaluated for a particular criterion." 
2 
The Petitioner's appeal brief states that he is a former I I swim team member, but it 
does not point to evidence in the record demonstrating that this organization requires outstanding 
achievements in the field, as judged by recognized national or international experts. In addition, the 
"field for which classification is sought" in this case is coaching and instruction. The Petitioner has 
not shown that thel lswim team is a coaching association. For these reasons, the 
Petitioner has not established he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided articles relating to his accomplishments as a competitive swimmer in 
SwimSwam and Best Swimming . The "field for which classification is sought" in this case, however, 
is coaching and instruction. The Petitioner has not shown that his competitive swimming 
accomplishments relate to his work as a coach or an instructor. Further, the Petitioner has not 
presented SwimSwam and Best Swimming's circulation or readership information relative to other 
publications indicating that they rise to the level of major trade publications or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not identify his original athletic-related contributions of major 
significance in the field. He mentions "letters from experts in the field," but does not point to any 
specific letter or explain how it shows that he made original contributions of major significance in the 
field. For example, the Petitioner presented a letter froml IPresident, 
discussing the Petitioner's achievements as a competitive swimmer such as a gold medal at the 
in the 400-meter Freestyle Mix Relay." This letter, however, does not indicate that 
the Petitioner's original work has influenced the field in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance in his field. Nor does Mr. I Iletter offer specific 
examples of how the Petitioner's coaching has affected his sport to the extent that it is of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner's references do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor 
does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original 
contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major 
significance. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his specific work rises to the level of original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our decisions 
concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, 
clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) . 
3 
(upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily evidence of a track record of 
success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 
F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held evidence insufficient "because it 
did not show widespread replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original work has affected his field at a level commensurate with contributions ofmajor 
significance in the field. He therefore has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, USCIS looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 3 A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. 4 For a critical role, USCIS 
looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment.5 A petitioner must also demonstrate that the 
organization or establishment, or the department or division for which they hold or held a leading or 
critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 6 Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or "befitting an eminent person."7 
The Petitioner claims on appeal that he has performed in a "leading role" for organizations that have 
a distinguished reputation, but he does not any specific organization. While the Petitioner has 
competed as a swimmer for the I ]team and coached for _______ he does 
not point to evidence demonstrating that these positions were leading roles. For example, the 
Petitioner's employment agreement with ______ indicates that he reports to "the Head 
Coach and Board of Directors." The Petitioner, however, has not shown that his coaching position at 
is a leading role. Nor does the Petitioner's appeal brief identify specific evidence 
in the record showin ng that the I I swim team and _______ have a 
distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For this criterion, USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to 
the compensation paid to others working in the field. 8 The Petitioner's employment agreement with 
______ states that he "shall be paid a base salary of $30,000.00 less applicable 
withholding and payroll taxes. . . . You are eligible for a fully discretionary performance bonus to be 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
decided in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors with such bonus in no event in excess ofup to 
5% of base salary." In addition, the Petitioner submitted his 2023 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return 
showing total income of $40,951.00, but he has not provided evidence showing that his salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to other swim coaches. 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary 
or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
(considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. Accordingly, he has not established 
that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The Petitioner's field, however, is not in the performing 
arts. Without evidence of sales or box office receipts demonstrating his commercial success in the 
performing arts, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. 0-1 NONIMMIGRANT STATUS 
The record reflects that in August 2021 the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants ofextraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, this approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an 
immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, and 
case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'! v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 2021); Q Data 
Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. 
Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajj'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See, e.g., La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) (per curiam). Nor are we required to 
approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Constr. & Design Co. v. Bureau ofCitizenship & Immigr. Servs., 2008 
WL 2074097 *5 (N.D. Ill. May 14, 2008) (describing as "prudent" that the AAO "assess each 
application on its own, rather than rubber stamping applications merely because of prior approvals"), 
5 
aff'd sub nom. Constr. & Design Co. v. US. Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 563 F.3d 593 (7th Cir. 
2009). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships, published material, 
original contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, high salary, or commercial 
successes in the performing arts. Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the initial criteria 
is dispositive of his appeal, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We therefore reserve this issue. 9 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516. 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 1, 2024 In Re: 33961361 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the analysis below. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
also allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability based on his skills and experience as 
a civil engineer specializing in structural fire engineering. The record shows that the Petitioner earned 
a doctoral degree in structural engineering. He has published scholarly articles discussing his research 
findings concerning properties of fire-resistant structural steel and aluminum alloy materials at varied 
temperatures. The Petitioner also co-authored a book on fire resistance of steel structures and was 
listed as a "main author" in a publication pertaining to the I !engineering construction standard 
and was a "main drafter" of two other publications -one pertaining to I I engineering 
construction code and another pertaining to China's national code for fire safety of steel structures in 
buildings. The Petitioner was also listed as an inventor in over 20 approved patents in China and one 
patent that was granted in the United States. The Petitioner states that he intends to use his expertise 
in the field of structural fire engineering to operate his own business where he intends to provide fire 
protection design and consultancy services. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets the five regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv) -(vi). The Director concluded, and we agree, that the Petitioner met the 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence demonstrating a petitioner's 
participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which requires evidence of the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in a 
2 
major trade publication. However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the three 
remaining claimed criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the three remaining criteria and is otherwise eligible for 
the requested classification. He contends that the Director overlooked or assessed certain evidence in 
a way that is not consistent with the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services policy. 
Upon review, we conclude that the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that he met the criterion 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence showing that the Petitioner made original 
contributions ofmajor significance in his field. As mentioned above, the record shows that aside from 
his published research, the Petitioner was a primary drafter of published regional and national 
standards which incorporate the Petitioner's findings regarding structural fire engineering. The 
originality of the Petitioner's work is further demonstrated through his contributions as an inventor to 
over 20 inventions for which patents were granted in China and one invention for which a patent was 
granted in the United States. 
The director may want to consider in the final merits the significance ofthe Petitioner's contributions based 
on evidence that the Petitioner received several prizes where such contributions were included in the 
judgingcriteria. For instance, the record shows that the Petitioner was among the first-prize winners 
of a Science and Technology award, which is described as an annual "national industry award" 
whose purpose is "to reward the collectives and individual who have made important contributions to 
the progress of science and technology." The Petitioner also won two second prize I IScience 
& Technology Progress Awards which required that he meets one of these characteristics: 
1) contribution "to economic development, crating significant economic benefits, and of great 
significance to the technological progress of the industry and the adjustment of industrial structure"; 
2) achievement of "significant social benefits and being of great significance to scientific and 
technological development ... and improvement of people's livelihood"; or 3) the candidate made an 
"outstanding transformation and application of scientific and technological innovation achievements, 
and great contributions to the urban construction and development of this city." 
In sum, the totality of the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). With eligibility under the three criteria discussed above, the Petitioner 
satisfied part one of the two-step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the 
sole basis for the denial of his petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. 
Because the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is 
unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. As noted above, 
where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided, including the awards referenced above, in a final 
merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115, section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), 
(3). The Director did not reach a finding on the final merits, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not submitted properly certified English language 
translations of his documents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief maintaining that he provided complete and accurate certified 
English language translations for his documents. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofY-P-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a foll English language translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete 
and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
Id. In denying the petition, the Director stated: "Because you did not offer properly certified English 
language translations identifying the corresponding foreign language documents, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports your claims." 
Our review of the record indicates the Petitioner provided "Certificate[s] of Accuracy" that 
immediately preceded the English language translations for his Chinese language documents. 1 In 
addition, many of the Petitioner's documents were in English and did not require a translation. 2 While 
we acknowledge the Director's concern that the Petitioner's Certificates of Accuracy did not list the 
specific documents they accompanied, these certifications and their accompanying English language 
translations sufficiently comply with the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
Accordingly, the Director's decision does not present a proper basis for denial. The Director should 
1 These signed and notarized certificates stated: 'This is to certify that my name is I I and I am competent in 
both Chinese and English and the attached translation from Chinese to English is accurate and complete to the best ofmy 
knowledge." 
2 For example, the letters of support from I 11 l and I were all written in English. Also. several 
of the Petitioner's other documents included duplicate sections with both English and Chinese text. 
2 
Matter ofY-P-
have evaluated both the documents properly translated from Chinese and those in the English 
language. 
Because the Director did not render a determination as to whether the Petitioner has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we are remanding for him to consider whether the Petitioner has met his 
burden of proof with respect to these criteria. Furthermore, if the Director determines that the 
Petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for farther 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter ofY-P-, ID# 5107130 (AAO Oct. 2, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-R-D-S-B-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 2, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a foreign trade executive , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that at the time of filin the Petitioner was workin as the shareholder and CEO 
of~-------------------------~ an international trading 
company based in Brazil. He states that he is an expert in the field of foreign trade, with expertise in 
identifying business segments, markets, companies, and trademarks "that have potential to grow and 
become an asset for foreign trade." Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that in 2013 he performed 
as a judge for the I I project developed by the I I I I Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below: the awards 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the membership in associations criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the original 
2 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the leading or critical role criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). He farther 
argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. We have reviewed all of the evidence in 
the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements 
of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence regarding the following awards, which he highlights on appeal: 
• Order of Business Merit 2009 from the ~------------------~ (awarded to the Petitioner) 
• Quality A ward -South America 2009 from the ~---------------~ 
• Top Quality Award -Export of Packaging Materials 2009 from the ~1------~ 
• Brazilian National Quality Award 2009, 
.___ _______ __.I '-------------------~ 
• To and Excellence Award~2-0-09_, _________________ ~J 
ir---------,- _ __J and the 1.--_--~-------------------,...J! 
• Top Quality Brazil Award -Export 2008, I I L----------' 
The Director determined that the evidence the Petitioner provided regarding these awards did not meet 
the regulatory criteria because it did not establish that the awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the evidence he provided regarding these awards 
does in fact meet the regulatory requirements. 
Regarding the Petitioner's receipt of the Order of Business Merit, the record contains his award 
certificate. In addition, the record includes information from the webpage www.ordens.presidencia.pt 
and from Wikipedia about the Order of Entrepreneurial Merit awarded by the Portuguese Republic. 1 
However, the Petitioner has not explained, and the record does not establish, how this evidence 
pertains to the award certificate he received from th ~-----------------~ Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the award he received rises to the level of a nationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. 
1 We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the 
validity of its content. See Wikipedia, General Disclaimer, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; 
see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
3 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
For the remaining awards listed by the Petitioner, we note that they were awarded tol I not to 
the Petitioner himself. According to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
the evidence must establish that a petitioner is the recipient of the prizes or the awards. The Petitioner 
asserts that asl l's shareholder and CEO the company's award "resulted solely from [his] 
exceptional knowledge, expertise and management" and emphasizes that "[t]he success of a CEO is 
deeply linked to the success of the company." While the Petitioner may have been instrumental to the 
success of the company, it remains that he is not the recipient of the award. Even if we, in principle, 
determined that the Petitioner may rely on awards his company received, the Petitioner has not 
provided sufficient corroborating evidence that he, as the founder of the company, was responsible for 
the recognized achievements. 
In addition, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner has not established that these awards are n~ 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 2 The award letter from thel____J I I indicates that the award "seeks to recognize and highlight the dedication of. 
the organizations that constantly care about the professional quality of [their] products and services," 
but the record does not contain evidence establishing that the award is recognized nationally or 
internationally for excellence in the field beyond the awarding entity. The Petitioner submitted a case 
study dated 2001 from a quality management research group titled, ''---.-----.,..,..-----------' 
comparing the evaluation criteria of five 
"internationally recognized quality awards" with those of thel I quality management program. 
The study does not address the level of national or international recognition of the I I ~-~ 
Information submitted about I I describes it as "a non-profit organization whose purpose is to 
support, guide, congregate, defend and promote companies and institutions about quality" in all fields, 
not just in the area of foreign trade. The I I award certificate states "[t]his acknowledgement 
of Quality Incentive is obtained via Public Opinion." An accompanying Evaluation Report shows the 
company received a score based upon completion of a questionnaire rating the company on such 
criteria as consumer satisfaction and suppliers' relationship. These materials indicate thel I 
award was based upon the high praise earned by the Petitioner's company from individual clients and 
suppliers. Similarly, materials submitted re ardin the Top Quality Brazil Award shows that the award 
was based upon responses obtained from 's customers, suppliers, collaborators, and partners. 
Further, the award certificate for the.__ ____ _. award states that it is for "services rendered to our 
entity." This documentation does not demonstrate the recognition that any of those awards received 
in the field beyond those awarding entities. For example, the record does not contain media coverage 
regarding the awards in the trade or general media. Without additional evidence, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the field recognizes the aforementioned awards at a national or international level 
as awards for excellence. In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this 
criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his position as a member, 
founder, and former I lof the I I Council for Import and Export Companies 
(CECIEx). The Director held that while the Petitioner had established his membership in CECIEx, he 
had not shown that CECIEx requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner states that the Director did not recognize his status as founding member and based his 
conclusion on the requirements for general membership contained in CECIEx's bylaws. He contends 
that he meets this criterion through the documentation in the record regarding the distinguished 
background of the CECIExl I He asserts that the '------------------' Members of CECIEx are recognized national and international experts in international trade and, 
"[t ]hus, the [P]etitioner is not just a member, but a member judged by experts in the field and appointed 
as of a distinguished institution." He argues his "founding membership level andD 
.__ __ __.I nomination, judged and approved by unanimous vote of experts in international trade, 
qualifies as a membership that requires outstanding achievements." On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
an article and a publicity release discussing CECIEx' s activities, a list of its 40 founding members that 
includes the Petitioner, and a CV and/or articles pertaining to its founding membersl I, 
'--------------~ I ,I andl l We find that the 
Petitioner has not met his burden of proof in establishing that he meets this criterion. 
Articles in the record indicate the activities of CECIEx include advocating in the interests of the import 
and export sector and promoting! !foreign trade, and that it "comprises over 400 import and 
export companies, with particular emphasis on small and mid-size companies." According to the 
CECIEx's bylaws, "membership can be given to import and export companies, or [companies] with 
potential in foreign trade" located in I I as well as "natural persons" whose activities cover foreign 
trade. In addition, the bylaws indicate there are several levels of membership, including founders, 
meritorious, supporters, aggregate taxpayers, and its institutional member the.__ ______ ~ I ~ described in the record as the largest Chamber of Commerce in Latin America. 
The bylaws state that founding members "are those who were invited by the institution who 
participated in its creation," while general members must submit an application to the executive board. 
The Petitioner provided a copy of the minutes of the 2012 board meeting at which he was elected0 
lof CECIEx. The Petitioner also provided a letter dated 2016 from CECIEx'sl I 
.__ ___________ __, confirming that the Petitioner is a member of the organization. He 
states that in 2012 he "suggested [the Petitioner] to be part o CECIEx" 
and that the recommendation "was submitted to and approved by all .__ _________ __, 
.__ ________________ ____.' The record does not demonstrate, however, the 
organization's criteria for board membership or its selection process. While the Petitioner provided 
documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of several founding members, a comparison 
5 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
alone to the other members of the board is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual 
members of the board may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that CECIEx requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, to be appointed 
to its board. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted articles published between 2010 and 2013 in the 
newspaper Bahia Industrial, and on the websites www.valor.com.br, www.dcomercio.com.br, 
www2.pplanalto.gov.br, and www.univates.br. Upon review, the articles are not about the Petitioner 
but focus on projects, and mention or quote him in discussing those project. For example, the articles 
are about the formation of CECIEx, a CECIEx seminar, the trade meeting I _ ,I and 
how.__ _____ ____. project intensified cargo inspection. In addition, the Bahia Industrial article 
contains an interview of the Petitioner conducted at a meeting organized byl I 
.__ _________ __,, and is about the importance of negotiators in the globalization ofi I 
produced services and goods. Articles that are not about the Petitioner do not establish eligibility for 
this criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 
2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, the article 
published on the website www2.pplanalto.gov.br does not satisfy the requirements of the criterion, as 
it does not identify the author. For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner maintains that he has established his eligibility under this 
criterion based on his having "developed groundbreaking projects in order to promote the export of 
small business' products and enhance their exporting potential," in his work with CECIEx, and as a 
consultant and professor for thel I. In support, 
he has submitted recommendation letters that discuss his work. Upon review, those letters do not 
demonstrate the impact or influence of his work to establish that he has made contributions of major 
significance in the field. 3 
The record contains two letters dated 2015 from I I the president ofl I and the vice 
president of I I and a letter dated 2015 from_ I vice president of I I The letters describe the Petitioner's expertise in the field of international trade as 
"internationally recognized" and "outstanding." The authors provide highlights of the Petitioner's 
3 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
work with CECIEx andl I including his 1osition as a member of the Foreign Trade Council, 
where his work focused on simplifyingj._ __ ___, foreign trade operational procedures for micro, small 
and medium enterprises, and facilitating the access of foreign companies into thel I market. 
The Petitioner also led the reception of foreign delegations on international missions to I l with 
an aim to promote and develop trade and institutional relations for bothl 1Tmpani
1es and the 
I I He was also involved in presentations at seminars and workshops at aimed at 
empowerinf I !companies to operate in international business and foreign trade, and he 
represented,___ _ _.~ith other organizations and governmental agencies worldwide. 
The Petitioner provided two letters dated 2015 from __________ ...., general manager of I I who indicates that he met the Petitioner in 2007 through the "exporter companies 
qualification project" called.___......,,.. ___ ___, He provides some highlights of the Petitioner's work 
with] I between 2012 and 2013. The Petitioner worked as a Professor/Instructor ai.e==] 
University on the project called the "Competitiveness Program -EAD." He served on theL__j 
Superior Council as a representative of CECIEx, and presented at international conferences on 
international markets. He further participated in the I 
organized by the .... l _____________________________ ~ 
I l He explains that the Petitioner's work focuses on what the Petitioner calls "indirect at· on," exporting! ~ products successfully via the use of exporter companies. I I 
describes indirect exportation as "a method still unexplored in many countries including 
He credits the Petitioner with having created "many didactic materials" forl I 
The record also contains a copy of a training manual about export trade that Petitioner prepared for 
the I !Competitiveness Program -EAD. The manual states that its purpose is to serve as "a 
reliable reference to companies and entrepreneurs who wish ... to introduce their products in foreign 
markets . . . providing a better familiarization with export proceedings and international business 
practices." As discussed previously, in order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish not 
only that he has made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
Here whj)el Is letters indicate that the Petitioner's manual has had an influence on 
I Is project, Competitiveness Program -EAD, it does not establish the manual's significance 
to the greater field of foreign trade. Demonstrating ability as a skilled foreign trade executive is not 
itself a contribution of major significance; rather, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has impacted 
the field of foreign trade as a whole. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-135 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field 
as a whole). Here, the record does not include documentary evidence showing the widespread 
implementation of the Petitioner's training manual, that it has been seminal, or that it otherwise equates 
to an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided evidence showing that he presented at several international 
conferences. Participation in a conference demonstrates that his findings were shared with others and 
may be acknowledged as original based on their selection for presentation. However, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the selection of Petitioner's materials for presentation at conferences and requests 
for him to speak in-and-of-themselves show the major significance of his contributions. Publications 
and presentations are not sufficient under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
7 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
1115. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his presenting and speaking engagements were 
majorly significant in the field. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the 
above-referenced letters do not contain sufficient detail, nor does the record include adequate 
supporting documentation, to establish specifically what the Petitioner's contributions were and how 
they represent contributions of major significance in the field. Without additional detail explaining 
his contributions, the record does not adequately demonstrate that the Petitioner's work in the field 
has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that although the record shows that the Petitioner has been employed in a 
leading or critical role for CECIEx as-...._ __ _____,,--------~----' between 2012 and 
2014, the Petitioner did not establish that CECIEx was a company with a distinguished reputation, as 
required by this criterion. 6 The Petitioner has submitted recommendation letters detailing his role as 
~ ~ I of CECIEx, including that in those roles he has played a leading 
or critical role in shaping the future of the company by representing the company on the Foreign Trade 
Council, with business organizations and governmental agencies worldwide, and in the reception of 
foreign delegations on international missions to Brazil. On appeal, the Petitioner has provided 
additional evidence establishing the distinguished reputation of CECIEx. Therefore, we find that the 
Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director held that the evidence in the record did not show that the Petitioner has commanded a 
high salary in relation to others in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner is the CEO of 
I I In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration 
is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 7 The Petitioner submitted a 
2010 Brazilian income tax return forl I, and several of the 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 Id. at 10. 
7 Id. at 11. 
8 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
company's purchase orders. He also provided comparative wage data, specifically screenshots from 
bis.gov reflecting that the national median pay for "top executives" is $104,700, and from the 
Occupational Outlook Handbook that shows the national mean wage for "chief executives" is 
$196,050. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he owns 50% ofj I and received 50% of the company's 
profits, which he asserts was "close to half million dollars in 2010." However, as noted by the 
Director, the income tax return froml I does not indicate the salary or remuneration, if any, the 
Petitioner received from the company. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate that he 
earned a salary placing him at the high end of the spectrum for wages of other chief executives. In 
addition, while the regulatory language of the criterion also allows for evidence of "other significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field," the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
showing these other incentives, and establishing that they are significantly high compared to other 
chief executives. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established his acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that he has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-R-D-S-B-, ID# 4266433 (AAO Oct. 2, 2019) 
9 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 27917006 Date: OCT. 2, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal concluding that he did not specifically 
identify any erroneous conclusion or law or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision as a basis for 
the appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our decision summarily dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we stated that his submission did not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the Director's decision. 
Further, while the Petitioner indicated that a brief and/or additional evidence would be submitted to 
the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal, the record did not show that he submitted those 
materials within that period. An officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any 
appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l)(v). 
As noted above, review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse decision. 
Accordingly, we examine any new facts and arguments to the extent that they pertain to our summary 
dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal. Thus, the issue before us is whether we properly found that the 
Petitioner's appeal met the applicable requirements for summary dismissal under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
On motion, the Petitioner provides additional evidence (pay stubs and a letter of support from his 
employer) addressing the Director's determination regarding his eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but he does 
not address our summary dismissal of the appeal. 1 He offers no new evidence or facts on motion to 
overcome the stated grounds for our summary dismissal decision. Moreover, he does not contend that 
our appellate decision was based on an incorrect application of law or users policy or that it was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts relevant to our summary dismissal that would warrant 
reopening of the proceedings, nor has he shown that we erred as a matter of law or users policy. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration of our appellate decision. 
Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore 
remains dismissed, and his underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 This evidence relates to the merits of the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. His opportunity 
to contest the Director's denial decision on the merits of his extraordinary ability claim was on appeal. Absent new facts 
or evidence to change the outcome of our summary dismissal of the appeal, we need not render a determination on the 
merits of the underlying petition here. 
2 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 28364074 Date: OCT. 2, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that he "has made an original business-related contribution of major significance 
to the field of Enterprise Resource Planning -Business Management Software." He further indicated 
that he intends "to continue working in the field ofERP -Business Management Software and develop 
new programs and software to improve client operations." The Petitioner did not assert that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and 
the Director found that the record does not support the conclusion; therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner stated that he 
satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(v), (viii)-(ix). However, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner satisfied only the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the record supports the 
Director's conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(v) and (ix), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). For 
the reasons addressed below, we conclude that the record does not satisfy at least three of the 10 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 'sJ participation, either individually or on a panel, as a 
judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains "certificates from the I foundation for 
Women thanking him for his participation as a mentor the programs [sic] in 2017 and 2019." The 
Director also acknowledged that the record contains "a certificate from I lthanking him for 
supporting its Diversity Externship." However, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) because it does not establish that his role as a mentor acted 
"as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field," as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "the meaning of the word 'Judge' or 'Judging' ... is broad 
enough to include actions by people who have not been expressly named a 'judge' or 'reviewer' for a 
specific event or activity." The Petitioner then reiterates information in the record about his mentor 
2 
"role at thel IFoundation." 1 The record does not support the Petitioner's assertion in the 
record that his role as mentor for the I IFoundation for Women satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted 
an undated, two-page document titled 'The Role of the Mentor," bearing the I !Foundation 
for Women logo on both pages. In relevant part, the I !Foundation for Women document 
states that a mentor "support[ s] their mentee to articulate goals . . . . A mentor listens to their mentee 
and provides them with the opportunity to evaluate their own progress" (emphasis added). Although 
"a mentor gives their mentee an opportunity to reflect on where they are and what progress they are 
making in their entrepreneurial journey [ and] offers perspective to their mentee, [a] mentor should not 
offer solutions; instead, they should provide support to bring out their mentee 's wisdom" (emphasis 
added). 
Although we acknowledge that not all those who judge the work of others bear the title of 'judge," 
nevertheless, a role defined by providing others "the opportunity to evaluate their own progress" and 
providing support for others to bring out their own wisdom is inconsistent with the plain-language 
meaning of the IJhrase 'judge of the work of others," provided at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Thus, 
thel Foundation for Women's document in the record does not support the conclusion that 
the Petitioner's role as mentor for that organization was in the capacity ofa judge ofthe work ofothers, 
as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record does not satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's} original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance to the field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner "submitted evidence of the patent [ for an artificial 
intelligence-based chat bot platform] which lists him as the first inventor." However, the Director 
noted that "the issuance ofa patent, by itself: does not verify the significance ofthe innovation patented 
because the patent's significance is not evaluated during the application process." The Director 
observed that the record does not establish how the Petitioner's chat bot platform "demonstrates the 
major significance of his contribution in the field," as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the following evidence in the record satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v): "an article published byl lin 2018 detailing the sale of the product 
and the product's impact on the client," along with a "letter from the representative ofI 
client,I Itestifying to the tremendous impact and value that the company gained by 
purchasing the [ chat bot platform]" and evidence of contracts between I 
The Petitioner does not establish on appeal that his contributions are of major significance to the field. 
Although the documents address how the chat bot platform may be significant to IIthey do not address how the chat bot platform may be significant to the broader field of 
enterprise resource planning (ERP), or indeed how it amounts to "major significance to the field," as 
1 The Petitioner did not address the Director's conclusion regarding thel~_~lcertificate on appeal and. thus. he has 
waived that issue. I 
I 
I 
3 I 
required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), beyond one company and one of its clients. On 
the contrary, the Petitioner acknowledged that he "invented his chatbot around the same time Apple 
Siri, IBM Watson[,] Google Assistant[,] Microsoft Cortana[,] and Amazon Alexa became prevalent." 
However, the record does not reconcile how the Petitioner's chat bot platform used by a single client 
is of major significance to the field of ERP-or any other particular field-given numerous other, 
prevalent chat bot platforms developed "around the same time." Because the record does not establish 
how the Petitioner's contribution is of major significance to the field, it does not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We need not determine whether the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) because, 
even if it did, the record would not satisfy at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record 
in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 02, 2024 In Re: 33901196 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria set forth in the 
regulations . The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A) ofthe Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals who: have extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability; and demonstrate that their entry will offer substantial prospective benefits to the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a guitarist, composer and 
educator who regularly records and performs with his own 
jazz groups. The record reflects that he also frequently collaborates with other artists, most notably, 
as a guitarist on two Latin Grammy-nominated albums by Roxana Amed. The Petitioner completed 
his undergraduate education and an advanced diploma in music in Australia and earned his masters 
and doctoral degrees in music from the where he has since served as an 
instructor. He states that he intends to continue working as a musician in the United States. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these criteria, relating 
to judging the work of others in his field and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(j)(3)(iv) and (vii). The record supports the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner meets these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria relating to published materials about 
him in professional or major trade publications or major media and authorship of scholarly articles. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vi). 2 Further, he contends that the Director erroneously failed to 
consider comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), noting that the decision did not address 
his submission of several letters of support from renowned musicians. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 The record shows the Petitioner has been working in the United States for several years pursuant to 0-lB nonimmigrant 
status. We acknowledge that this status is granted to persons of extraordinary ability in the arts. However, the 
nonimmigrant and immigrant extraordinary ability categories have different definitions, evidentiary requirements, and 
standards for persons in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 classification means 
'"distinction." 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual 
is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. Regardless, each petition is separate and independent and must 
be adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. 
2 Although the Petitioner previously claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards, he does not contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on appeal or 
otherwise refer to it in his appeal brief. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 
330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter o/R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
l. Published Materials 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), a petitioner must submit "published material about 
[them] in professional or major trade publications or other major media relating to [their] work in the 
field for which classification is sought." This evidence must include the title, date and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation. 
Evidence submitted in support of this criterion may include documentation such as print or online 
newspaper or magazine articles, popular or academic journal articles, books, textbooks, similar 
publications, or a transcription of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and the 
person's work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual ( discussing how USCIS evaluates evidence submitted in support of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership or viewership 
(for major trade publications and other major media). Id. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided 15 exhibits in support of this criterion. This evidence 
included articles about the Petitioner published online by AllEvents.in, JazzEncounters.com, 
Voyagemia.com, Australianj azz.net, J azzlocal32.com, J azzdaGama.com, ModemJ azzToday .com, 
JazzBluesFlorida.com, and Listen/Hear Collective. He also submitted his artist/musician profile pages 
from the websites All About Jazz, Indaba Music, and RAW. Finally, the Petitioner submitted reviews 
ofl Ialbums _______ which were published by LatinJazzNet.com. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director addressed each evidentiary exhibit, noting that some 
were missing the required date and author while some lacked a URL address. The Director also 
observed that the record did not include evidence to demonstrate that any of the materials were 
published in "a form of major media." The Director advised the Petitioner that to demonstrate the 
publications qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major media, he may submit 
comparative circulation data and/or evidence regarding the intended audience of the publications. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted additional information regarding the websites AllEvents.in, 
AllAboutJazz.com, and VoyageMIA.com. In an accompanying cover letter, he stated the additional 
evidence establishes that "these are major media sources." The Director reviewed the additional 
evidence but noted that the article from AllEvents.in did not include the date of publication or the 
author, while the material from All About Jazz appeared to be an artist profile page (with no author or 
date ofpublication) rather than a published article. The Director concluded the evidence submitted in 
response to the RFE was insufficient to demonstrate that any of the submitted articles were published 
in "a form of major media." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously failed to consider whether the submitted 
articles were published in professional or major trade publications, and instead improperly imposed a 
requirement that only "major media" can satisfy the plain language of this regulation. He contends 
that the submitted articles "were included in professional and trade publications specifically focused 
on jazz" which cater to "jazz musicians." The Petitioner also asserts that the Director overlooked 
3 
USCIS policy guidance instructing officers that an individual and their work need not be the only 
subject of the published material when reviewing evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
Turning to the submitted evidence, we agree with the Director's determination that the two 
LatinJazzNet.com articles reviewing I Ialbums do not meet the 
plain language of this criterion. Both articles mention the Petitioner's name as one of the guitarists 
that played on Ms.I lalbums, but the articles are not about him. A petitioner and their work 
need not be the only subject ofthe published material, but any published material that covers a broader 
topic should include a substantial discussion of the petitioner and their work in the field in order to 
meet the plain language of this criterion. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(4). 
Here, the two articles from LatinJazzNet.com did not include this substantial discussion of the 
Petitioner and his work. 
The Petitioner also submitted his online artist/musician profile pages from All About Jazz, Jndaba 
Music, and RAW. These pages do not identify a date or author; rather it appears that these websites 
allow member musicians to create and maintain their own artist pages, which serve, in part, as a 
promotional tool. 3 Although the Director noted in the decision that these materials appear to be self­
created artist profiles rather than articles written and published by the websites about the Petitioner 
and his work, the Petitioner does not address this observation on appeal. We agree with the Director's 
determination that these materials do not meet the plain language of the regulation. 
As noted, the Petitioner contends on appeal that the submitted articles appeared in "professional and 
trade publications specifically focused on jazz." While he appears to suggest that every website with an 
apparent focus on jazz music qualifies as a professional or trade publication in his field, the record does 
not contain adequate support for this claim. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional or trade publication, relevant factors include evidence relating to the publication's intended 
audience. The evidence should show that the intended audience is professionals in the Petitioner's field. 
For example, a magazine or website published by a professional association or industry trade group may 
be a qualifying medium intended for professionals or experts in a certain field. 
The Petitioner submitted three articles about him from the websites Jazzlocall23.com and 
JazzdaGama.com, but the limited information provided regarding these online publications indicates 
they are biogs and not professional or trade publications. He also submitted a copy of an interview 
that was published online by Listen/Hear Collective, but there is no date, author or URL provided, or 
supporting evidence regarding the intended audience for this website. However, based on the 
screenshots provided, it appears the publisher is a record label and not a professional or major trade 
publication. 
The record includes articles about the Petitioner published by AustralianJazz.net, 
ModemJazzToday.com, and JazzandBluesFlorida.com. These websites are described in the 
supporting evidence, respectively, as "an online publication about Australian jazz and improvised 
music," "a radio program that focuses on today's jazz," and "a prominent and trusted paid content 
3 For example, the All About Jazz website provides instructions on how to create a free musician page and states "we've 
amassed over 143,000 musician pages at All About Jazz comtesy of musicians, publicists, record labels and super fans." 
See "Jazz Musicians," https://allaboutjazz.com/musicians. 
4 
promotion platform dedicated to the vibrant jazz and blues scene in Florida." The Petitioner has not 
submitted sufficient evidence of the intended audience of these publications to demonstrate that they 
qualify as "professional or major trade publications" under the plain language of this criterion. Again, 
the Petitioner's unsupported proposition that any jazz-related website qualifies as one of these types 
of media is not persuasive. 
The two remaining articles were published by AllEvents.in and VoyageMIA.com. The AllEvents.in 
article provides some biographical information about the Petitioner and previews his I I I I show held in on May 12 of an unidentified year. The article does not include the 
author or date ofpublication. Further the evidence submitted about AllEvents. in does not demonstrate 
that website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. Finally, based on the submitted 
evidence, VoyageMIA.com is a local magazine focused on Miami's "small businesses, independent 
artists and entrepreneurs" and "local institutions" rather than a professional or major trade publication. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2. Authorship of Scholar Articles 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must ( 1) provide evidence that they have authored scholarly articles 
in the field and (2) demonstrate that the articles appeared in professional publications, major trade 
publications or major media publications. In the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original 
research, experimentation or philosophical discourse, will typically have footnotes, endnotes or a 
bibliography and may include charts, graphs, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
expressed in the article. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(1). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his doctoral dissertation titled 
________________________________ He provided 
the abstract for his dissertation, evidence that it was registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, and 
evidence that it is available for viewing or download in the "open access" section of the website 
Scholarship owned by the 4 Scholarship is described in the 
record as "the institutional repository and research information hub ofthe [ Iwhich 
includes "research and scholarly works prepared by faculty, students, and staff of the university." 
Based on information provided on the website, the university's students may upload or "deposit" their 
own academic work in the repository with the approval of a sponsoring department or faculty 
member. 5 
The Director determined that the Scholarship! !website does not qualify as "major media." On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to consider whether the _______ 
website is a "professional publication." He asserts that the evidence "unequivocally establishes 
Scholarship is a professional website which features scholarly works." 
4 The Petitioner also provided evidence that his dissertation was posted at www.theguitar-blog.com but has not pursued a 
claim that this blog is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
5 See "Scholarship IFAQs," https://guides.libraryl l/scholarshipl._ ___ 
5 
In support of his claim, the Petitioner refers to a non-precedent decision in which we determined that 
an individual satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) by providing evidence that their Ph.D. 
dissertation had been published in a "digital library." However, this decision was not published as a 
precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. The record does not contain 
evidence that Scholars hip qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. In evaluating 
whether a submitted publication is a professional publication or major trade publication, relevant 
factors include the intended audience ofthe publication. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). Here, the evidence does not establish the intended audience of ______ 
institutional repository or support a determination that it is intended for persons working in a particular 
profession. Further, the Petitioner has not articulated how the _______ general 
"institutional repository" is comparable to the examples of qualifying professional publications 
provided in USCIS policy guidance which include academic journals, "professionally relevant peer­
reviewed journals," books, textbooks, and professional online publications. See generally id. 
Finally, there is insufficient evidence that Scholarship! which accepts uploads or "deposits" 
of work from students and staff and makes them searchable and accessible online, can be considered 
the "publisher" of these works. The record does not contain sufficient information regarding this 
"deposit" process for us to determine whether Scholarship is a publication much less a 
professional publication as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director "erroneously failed to consider additional comparable 
evidence" to establish his eligibility. Specifically, he emphasizes he "submitted numerous letters of 
support from other renowned musicians and professionals attesting to [his] extraordinary abilities," 
noting that the evidence was "wholly ignored ... without any mention or justification." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable 
evidence to establish eligibility, if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the 
regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. Here, the Petitioner did not indicate he 
was submitting the reference letters as comparable evidence to satisfy one of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), nor did he otherwise indicate their relevance to one or more of these criteria. 
General claims that USCIS should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that the letters provide relevant information regarding his 
expertise and his level of acclaim and recognition in his field. Such evidence is relevant to the final 
merits determination and would be taken into consideration had the Petitioner demonstrated that he 
meets the initial evidence requirement of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). However, the Petitioner has not established that the Director erred by not evaluating the reference 
letters as comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 2, 2024 In Re: 33380170 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientist researching plant pathology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate in a riculture from in 2016, through a 
joint program with the ______________ She then trained as a research fellow at 
_____ from 2016 to 2021. When she filed the petition in 2022, the Petitioner was a post-
doctoral associate at as a J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor. The Petitioner stated 
that her "contributions include strategies to control Phytophthora capsici . .. , Tobacco mosaic virus ... , 
and root parasitic weeds."1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three ofthe alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the criterion relating to 
original contributions. The Petitioner also incorporates her earlier response to a request for evidence 
(RFE), referring to her claims regarding published material about her and leading or critical roles. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director did not consider the record as a whole, instead 
focusing on how specific parts of the record addressed individual regulatory criteria. Under the 
Kazarian framework, a petitioner must first satisfy the requirements ofat least three regulatory criteria. 
The second step is to review the record as a whole with regard to whether the Petitioner has established 
sustained national or international acclaim. The Director did not proceed to that second step, having 
concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied at least three of the threshold criteria. 
1 We note that, in March 2024, the Petitioner filed an immigrant petition for classification as a member of the professions 
holding an advanced degree under section 203(b)(2) of the Act. That petition, with receipt number I I was 
approved in July 2024. 
2 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
relating to judging and scholarly articles. As discussed below, we also agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner has not satisfied the criteria relating to published material and leading or critical roles. 
Further below, we will discuss the Petitioner's remaining claim of original contributions of major 
significance. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the field. However, 
the person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published material that 
covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion ofthe person's work in the field and mentions 
the person in connection to the work may be considered material about the person relating to the person's 
work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
We may consider material that focuses solely or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team 
of which the person is a member, provided that the material mentions the person in connection with the 
work or other evidence in the record documents the person's significant role in the work or research. Id. 
Under this criterion, the Petitioner pointed to the citations of her scholarly articles by other researchers. 
Those citations mention the Petitioner's name when she is the primary author of the cited article, but the 
citing articles are not solely or primarily about the Petitioner's work in the field. Rather, the citing authors 
identified the Petitioner or the team in which she works as the source, or one of multiple sources, for a 
particular fact referenced in the citing article. Such citations are not published materials about the 
Petitioner, any more than the Petitioner's own scholarly articles are published materials about any of the 
authors whom she and her co-authors cited in those articles. 
One of the Petitioner's articles appeared in ChemBioChem with the tag "Very Important Paper" above 
the title. This three-word tag is not, by itself, published material about the Petitioner. Its relevance to the 
significance ofthe Petitioner's work is a separate consideration, discussed further below. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met the requirements ofthis criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In the initial statement submitted with the petition, the Petitioner did not directly address this criterion 
except to state that "the totality of the evidence already presented would make this category an easy 
win." Because the Petitioner bears the burden of proof in this proceeding, it is the Petitioner's 
responsibility to explain how the evidence supports her claims. It is not sufficient for the Petitioner to 
refer generally to categories of evidence in the record and assert that unspecified information in that 
evidence establishes that she is, or has been, a "Key Member of [ an unnamed] Distinguished 
Organization." 
3 
In the RFE, the Director discussed fully the types of evidence and information that would be necessary 
for the Petitioner to establish a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization or establishment. 
In response, the Petitioner cited "material showing that is a distinguished organization." 
We do not dispute the distinguished reputation of I I as a whole, but the Petitioner has not 
explained how her employment as a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Plant Biology is 
leading or critical for the entirety of I Alternatively, where a role is leading or 
critical for a division or department of an organization or establishment, the petitioner must show that 
the department or division has a distinguished reputation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). Here, the Petitioner's response to the RFE included a letter from the professor who 
supervises the Petitioner at I I The professor stated that the Petitioner "was recruited as the number 
2 member of my group." The Petitioner did not cite evidence of a leading or critical role beyond the 
professor's group, or evidence that the professor's group has a distinguished reputation in its own right. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the regulatory 
requirements for this criterion. 
There remains one more criterion, toward which the Petitioner has devoted the bulk of her arguments 
in the petition and on appeal. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
When determining the major significance ofan individual's contributions, examples ofrelevant evidence 
include, but are not limited to: 
• Published materials about the significance of the person's original work; 
• Testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the person's original work; 
• Documentation that the person's original work was cited at a level indicative ofmajor significance 
in the field; and 
• Patents or licenses deriving from the person's work or evidence ofcomrnercial use ofthe person's 
work. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
Evidence that the person's work was funded, patented, or published, while potentially demonstrating the 
work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is of major significance to the 
field. For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from 
others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in that 
field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor. 
Similarly, evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention 
or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original contribution to the field. Id. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner "has made original contributions to the 
field," but had not established the major significance of those contributions. 
4 
We agree with the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director did not sufficiently explain why the 
submitted evidence is insufficient. The Petitioner has devoted most ofher arguments and evidence to the 
"original contributions" criterion, but the denial notice provides few details about why the evidence is 
insufficient. 
For example, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of citation data for the Petitioner's 
articles, but did not say how this information affected the outcome of the decision. If it is the Director's 
position that the Petitioner has not shown her work to be particularly well-cited, then the Director must 
explain how this is the case, citing to evidence in the record. 2 
We consider documentation that the person's original work was cited at a level indicative of major 
significance in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). The burden is on 
the Petitioner to establish that the rate ofcitations of her published work rises to that level. The Petitioner 
has submitted citation statistics which the Director has not yet evaluated. On remand, the Director must 
consider this information and gauge its reliability and applicability. 3 
The Director also stated that the Petitioner submitted "reference letters [that] do not go into detail on how 
the beneficiary's work has accomplished contributions of major significance." This conclusion, simply 
stated without illustrative examples, is not sufficient to permit an effective appeal. 4 
At the same time, we emphasize that characterizations in the Petitioner's statements and briefs cannot 
suffice to establish the significance of her contributions. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of 
Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 
49, 51 (BIA 1998). For instance, the Petitioner's assertions about the significance ofthe "Very Important 
Paper" tag appended to her ChemBioChem article have no weight as evidence, and the burden ofproof is 
on the Petitioner to support those assertions. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's claim rests heavily on evidence intended to show original contributions of major 
significance. The Director's discussion of that evidence lacked sufficient detail to explain how the 
Director reached the conclusions stated in the denial notice. On remand, the Director must consider 
2 If the Director relies upon evidence or information from outside the record, then the Director must advise the Petitioner of 
that evidence or information as set fo1ih at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i). 
3 Some of the citation statistics are divided by fields. The Petitioner compares her citation rate to the statistics for "Plant 
& Animal Science," rather than to other, more highly cited fields such as "Microbiology" and "Molecular Biology & 
Genetics." The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that Clarivate, which compiled the statistics, categorizes the 
Petitioner's published work under "Plant & Animal Science." Without such evidence, the Petitioner has not established 
that the statistics in that field apply to her published work. We also note that the Petitioner's appeal, filed in 2024, includes 
year-by-year citation statistics that appear to date from 2020, in which case they were out of date at the time of their 
submission. The Petitioner appears to characterize these statistics as applying to a researcher's total career citation total, 
but they appear instead to refer to specific articles. 
4 Some letters and other materials credit the Petitioner with making a particular discovery or observation "for the first 
time." We emphasize that being the first to make a particular finding may be a sign of originality, but it does not establish 
its major significance. It cannot suffice for the Petitioner to show that she was the first to make a particular finding; she 
must also establish that the finding is of major significance in the field. Likewise, letters and other materials explain why 
particular findings are useful, but that does not convey how the findings are of major significance in the field. 
5 
this evidence more fully and, if appropriate, allow the Petitioner another opportunity to supplement 
the record with specified evidence. 
In the event the Director determines that the Petitioner has satisfied three initial criteria, then the 
Director must undertake a final merits determination as outlined in Kazarian. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 3, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
Following the Petitioner's timely response to the Director of the Nebraska Service Center's request 
for evidence, the Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of 
the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence asserts that she meets at least three 
of the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of Y-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Petitioner is an actress. As she has not received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the record must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria for membership and for judging at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv), respectively. Evidence in the record establishes the Petitioner's 
membership in an artists' union whose bylaws indicate that the organization requires outstanding 
achievements as determined by its own experts. The record also includes correspondence confirming 
that the Petitioner served as a judge in beauty and talent competitions. Accordingly we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for membership and judging. The Director concluded, 
however, that the Petitioner had not shown she met an additional criterion and therefore was not 
eligible for the benefit sought. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the "previously submitted evidence ... establishes that" she meets 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). She farther notes that 
the Director "overlooked a regulatory criteria [sic] of evidence of the alien's artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field that the [petitioner] claimed" ( emphasis in original). 1 
1 In May 2018, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) asking that the Petitioner provide additional documentation 
2 
Matter of Y-S-
As the Petitioner notes on appeal, the Director did not address the Petitioner's claim that she met the 
criterion for original contribution found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Accordingly, we will remand 
the matter for him to analyze the evidence submitted under that criterion. 
In addition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met the published material criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), finding in part that the articles submitted by the Petitioner were not about 
her and her work in the field. However, upon review, we find that that at least one of the submitted 
articles ublished on ambebi. e was in fact about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field: D 
~--------------------------~ which profiles the actress and 
discusses her acting roles. Further, on appeal, the Petitioner provides comparative evidence about the 
monthly number of unique online visits to ambebi.ge, which the Director has not yet had an 
opportunity to consider. Therefore, we also remand this decision for the Director to determine whether 
the noted article about the Petitioner meets the remaining requirements of the published material 
criterion. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least one additional criterion beyond the two 
already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether 
she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596F.3dat 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be remanded to the Director for further action in accordance with this decision. It is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U .S.C. § 1361. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter ofY-S-, ID# 4315991 (AAO Oct. 3, 2019) 
related to the membership, published materials, scholarly articles, display, leading or critical role, and salary criteria found 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii-iv),(vi-ix), respectively. In her timely response to this RFE, the Petitioner provided additional 
evidence and asseited that she also met the criterion for original contribution at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20687003 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 3, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney and managing partner at a Brazilian law firm, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition and dismissed a subsequent motion to 
reconsider , concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three 
of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 1 The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
1 The Director also dismissed the subsequent motion because it was not accompanied by a statement about whether or not 
the unfavorable decision has been the subject of any judicial proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(iii)(C). The required 
statement on judicial proceedings under 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C) is a procedural rule that helps U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services identify those cases involving judicial proceedings so they can be held in abeyance pending the 
outcome of litigation involving the originally filed petition. See, e.g. Memorandum from Richard E. Norton, Assoc. 
Comm'r for Examinations, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Adjudication of Petitions and Applications which are 
in Litigation or Pending Appeal (Feb. 8, 1989). The brief accompanying the Petitioner 's appeal addresses the Director's 
ground for dismissal by confirming that his petition is not and has not been the subject of any judicial proceeding . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that he qualifies as "an individual of extraordinary ability in the highly 
specialized field of transnational corporate law, particularly for his expertise in complex transactions 
involving commercial tax and labor laws and regulations." Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met 
seven of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, published material about him, participation 
as a judge of the work of others, original contributions of major significance, authorship of scholarly 
articles, leading or critical role, and significantly high remuneration. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the criteria relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles and leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets 
the awards for excellence, published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, 
original contributions of major significance, and significantly high remuneration criteria, and that the 
Director therefore should have proceeded to a final merits determination. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specialization. The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion because he has served 
as a member of multiple Ph.D. dissertation committees that made the final judgment as to whether an 
individual candidate's body of work satisfied the requirements for a doctoral degree in Law. For example, 
the record indicates that the Petitioner served on a panel that evaluated Ph.D. candidates' thesis topics 
such as 'The Import Tax Incidence Matrix Rule," "Participative Tax Law: Administrative Transaction 
and Arbitration of Tax Obligation," and "Typicity, Antijuridicity and Culpability in Tax Violations." We 
2 
agree with the Petitioner that the work he judged in these instances falls within an allied field of 
specialization for which classification is sought. 
In satisfying this third criterion, the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial of the 
petition. Granting the third initial criterion, however, does not suffice to establish eligibility for the 
classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze 
the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish 
extraordinary ability in his field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678669 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 3, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an asset manager specializing in insurance and pensions, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), participation as a judge 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that she garnered sustained national 
or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
demonstrating that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On 
appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim, 2 that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
1 Meeting the minimum requirement of providing required initial evidence does not, in itself, establish that the person in 
fact meets the requirements for extraordinary ability classification. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A) (stating that "such acclaim must be maintained" and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability 
in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner indicated that since 2005 she has served as "the Director of the Pension 
Market and R&D Center and the Asset Custody Department in She provided 
a statement asserting: 
I have over 20 years of experience in assets management, including more than 15 years 
of experience serving retirees and senior citizens. I received a Ph.D. degree in 
management and have extensive knowledge of the financial market. I have the skills 
and networks required to acquire high-net-worth clients from China. After working for 
over 20 years in the financial industry, I have developed personal wealth, business 
acumen, and deep investment expertise. 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has presented published material about her, has 
judged the work of others, and has authored scholarly articles, the record does not demonstrate that 
she enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to published material, the Petitioner offered a 2018 article in China Enterprise News 
briefly mentioning her experience and then interviewing her about I I I I She also presented documents indicating that she was interviewed 
by !Televisions in Beijing" for I lnews" programming inl 12018, but the 
record does not include an actual transcript of the television report. 4 In addition, the Petitioner 
provided video screenshots which she claims show multiple 2018 interviews of her by China 
Securities Journal staff that appeared on the Xinhua News mobile app. 5 Furthermore, the record 
includes a 2018 article fromMBAChina.com, entitled I 
6 
While the Petitioner indicated that she has worked in her field for more than 20 years, she did not 
present any media coverage of her prior to or after 2018. The Petitioner therefore did not demonstrate 
that her press coverage is consistent with the "sustained" national or international acclaim necessary 
for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 Without a transcript from the television program, the Petitioner has not shown that the coverage was about her. 
5 These interviews are about the Chinese pension system, insurance, and retirement planning rather than the Petitioner. 
6 The author of this article was not identified. 
3 
did not show how the aforementioned media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on her and her 
activities reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the 
Petitioner's media exposure limited to 2018 does not meet this very high standard. For example, 
almost all of the media coverage involves the Petitioner discussing topics such as insurance and 
pensions rather than material about Petitioner and her accomplishments. 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 7 The Petitioner 
submitted a March 2019 letter from the "Editorial Office ofl I stating 
that she reviewed 10 manuscripts for that journal in 2018. She also provided a March 2019 letter from 
the "Editorial Office ofl I stating that she reviewed 21 manuscripts for that journal 
since 2018. Both letters state that reviewers for each journal "are all experts in the insurance industry." 
At issue here is the extent to which the Petitioner's peer review activities have required, reflected, or 
resulted in her being nationally or internationally acclaimed. The Petitioner, however, did not present 
documentation indicating the aforementioned journals' specific requirements for selection of peer 
reviewers. For instance, reviewing manuscripts for journals that select their reviewers based on 
subject matter expertise would not provide strong support for the petition, because possessing 
expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than sustained national or international 
acclaim, and an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). Nor is there 
objective supporting evidence (such as journal rankings from an independent source) demonstrating 
the stature of and I to show that the Petitioner's peer 
review service is reflective of national or international acclaim. 
Therefore, although the record shows that the Petitioner has reviewed multiple journal articles for I I and I I this evidence does not demonstrate how her 
peer review activity compares to or differentiates her from her peers in the field. Similarly, the 
evidence in the record does not show that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
for her service as a peer reviewer. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Without this or other evidence 
differentiating her from others in her field, the Petitioner has not established how her peer review 
experience contributes to establishing that she is among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
The Petitioner also rovided documentation indicatin that she served as a jude at the 
2018 
She has not shown, however, that serving as a 
judge at this construction and development conference involved judging the work of others in her field 
of asset management (specializing in insurance and pensions) or in an allied field. Additionally, the 
submitted documentation does not indicate whose work the Petitioner judged, their stature in the field, 
the re uirements for selection as a jude or the resti e associated with servin as a jude at 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging at this 
conference contributes to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the field or the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. For instance, the Petitioner did not establish that she garnered wide attention from the field based 
on her service as a judge. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that her judging experience places 
her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging experience is consistent with the 
"sustained" national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. While the Petitioner asserted that she has worked in her field for 
more than 20 ears, her · ud in ex erience for 
_____________ is limited to 2018 and early 2019. Accordingly, she has not 
demonstrated that her service as a judge is indicative of "sustained" acclaim. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 8 Although 
the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that she has authored one article in China Finance, 
one article in Journal of Central University of Finance and Economics, parts of a two-volume book 
series, and a book chapter, she did not demonstrate that her publication record is consistent with having 
a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 
and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor did the Petitioner submit evidence showing the significance 
of her authorships or how her overall publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very 
top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's published work 
can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for articles 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that 
others have been influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided information from 
CNKI.net reflecting that the Petitioner's published work has been cited almost 60 times. The record, 
however, does not include comparative statistics indicating how often others in the Petitioner's field 
are cited. While the citation of her work shows that some in her field have referenced it, the Petitioner 
8 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). supra (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 
has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 9 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to her work represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. As it relates 
to her roles, the Petitioner has been serving as the Director of the Pension Market and R&D Center 
and the Asset Custody Department atl I since 2005. The Petitioner also presented 
letters of appointment assigninFi her as a "mentor" for the MBA programs at bothl I I !University andl University I I In addition, she provided a letter informing her 
of her appointment as a "Council Member" of the Pension Branch of the I I I I However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her positions are reflective of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The 
Petitioner did not show that her roles with I 
University! !University I and the Pension Branch of th I I I have earned distinction, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Nor did she establish that any of 
her roles resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, that she drew significant attention from the 
greater field, or that the overall field considers her to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition the Petitioner rovided an Au ust 2018 letter invitin eak at the I 
in 
from 8 to 10 September." She has not shown, however, that speaking at this construction summit 
signifies national or international acclaim in the field of asset management.1° Further, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence from the organizers of this summit indicating that they reserve their speaking 
invitations for those at the very top of her field. The Petitioner's participation in the aforementioned 
summit may demonstrate that her work was shared with individuals in the construction industry, but 
it does not show that she has sustained national or international acclaim in the field of asset 
management for insurance and pensions. 
With regard to her salary, the Petitioner provided "Salary and Tax" statements reflecting earnings of 
RMB $365,539 in 2016, $367,120 in 2017, and $336,389 in 2018. She also presented a Kelly 
Services 2017 China Salary Guide listing minimum and maximum RMB annual salary amounts for 
various occupations in the "Banking and Financial Services" sector.11 For example, the guide lists the 
minimum salary for both an "Equity Research Director" and a "Corporate Finance Director" with 10-
15 years of experience as RMB $1,000,000, which is much higher than the Petitioner's salary in 2016, 
9 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated how citation to her articles, individually or collectively, compares to those who are 
nationally or internationally recognized in her field. 
10 The accompanying itinerary for this construction summit indicates that its focus was on rural revitalization and 
development rather than asset management for insurance and pensions. 
11 The Petitioner does not specify which occupational titles in the ·'Banking and Financial Services" sector most closely 
align with her position as "Director of the Pension Market and R&D Center and the Asset Custody Department" at 
1 1 
6 
2017, and 2018. The Petitioner's evidence did not show that she has earned a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Without documentation demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or 
was significantly high in relation to others in the field, she has not demonstrated that her earnings 
place her among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner also offered recommendation letters discussing her work for and 
her standing in the field. 12 For exampleJ l professor a University, indicated 
that the Petitioner "developed a pension management product, which is a prototype similar to United 
States' personal pension plans in China." I I further stated: "Not only did her product lay the 
foundations for the development of a personal pension account similar to that of the United States in 
China, but it also promoted the design of multiple pension funds that were approved by the China 
Securities Regulatory Commission." In addition, I I professor atl I I I asserted that the Petitioner "is highly regarded in her field as she has achieved great 
success in the design and development of individual pension products. Her talents and achievements 
are invaluable assets which would be beneficial to any company she serves." 
FurthermoreJ I professor atl I University, stated that the Petitioner "designed 
the pension security management fund and custody forl I and that she "is one of 
the most highly respected and accomplished experts in individual plans among her peers in the field." 
Similarly] I professor atl I University, asserted that "[h ]aving worked in the 
sphere of pension finance for 14 years, [ the Petitioner] is one of the chief experts in the field of pension 
business." 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner, however, did not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor did the record include corroborating evidence, to show that she is viewed by the 
overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Additionally, the evidence did not establish that 
she has made impactfol or influential contributions in the field reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The letters described the Petitioner's work without showing 
how it represents an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
12 While we discuss a sampling of these recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). In the present matter, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 3, 2024 In Re: 33668505 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a top executive and furniture business owner, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he has been an executive and business owner for nearly 20 years. For the 
last 10 years he has been the owner, chief executive officer, and general director ofa furniture business. 
His business specializes in manufacturing bedroom, kitchen and children's furniture, as well as 
customized designs. He states that his duties as chief executive officer include, "directing company 
strategy and overseeing design and manufacturing processes, expanding the company's market reach, 
including exports to neighboring countries, and focusing on innovation in furniture design and 
sustainable manufacturing practices." The Petitioner seeks to establish a furniture business in the 
United States and "direct and oversee the operations." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he met three of these criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments 
with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in 
relation to others in the field. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record was not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner met any of the claimed criteria. The Director 
allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to attempt to demonstrate that he 
satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner reasserted that he met the above three criteria. He submitted 
additional evidence in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) (lesser nationally or 
2 
internationally recognized awards), and (viii) (performing in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation). The Petitioner did not submit additional evidence or 
further address his eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) (commanding a high salary 
or other remuneration in relation to others in the field). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As the Petitioner did not meet any of the criteria, the Director 
declined to conduct a final merits analysis to determine whether the Petitioner has reached a level of 
expertise indicating that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and whether he has sustained acclaim. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief: but does not identify any error, in law or fact, in the Director's 
decision. The Petitioner references evidence already in the record relating to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and submits additional evidence in support of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he has met three 
criteria and satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language ofthe regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national is 
the recipient ofthe prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally recognized; 
and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F .2(B )( 1 ), https: //www. uscis. gov /policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. Appropriate lines of 
inquiry under this criterion include the number of awardees, the criteria by which awardees are selected, 
the selection process itself, the entity that granted the award, and evidence that addresses the reputation 
of the award within the field. Id. 
With the initial filing, the Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion based on "several nationally and 
internationally recognized prizes and awards for excellence in the field of Executive Management and 
Wood Working Business." However, he did not name the awards, identify the awarding organization, 
or provide supporting documentary evidence. 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner listed the following awards as evidence that he meets this 
criterion: 
• 2021 Certificate of Reco nition, Craft Fair "organized by the I I 
and the ____ 
I I 
• 2021 Certificate of Recognition, Youth and Students' Forum of 
• 2021 Certificate of Recognition, 38th General Assembly of the II I 
3 
He provided copies of the certificates and general information about each event. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because he did not establish that 
the awards were given for excellence in the field of endeavor, or that the purpose of the awards was 
to recognize excellence in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he meets this criterion based on the three certificates of 
recognition described above and references the evidence submitted in the RFE response. The 
Petitioner states that the Certificate of Recognition at the Craft Fair I I 2021 is "a prestigious 
award presented during this significant event." He states that the Certificate of Recognition at the 
Youth and Students' Forum of I I was for "his dynamic engagement in this prominent 
national event, underscoring his excellence and achievements in his field. He also states that the 
Certificate of Recognition at the I I was for "his active participation in the exhibition fair, 
demonstrating his commitment to promoting and preserving Uzbekistan's cultural heritage on the 
international stage." 
The Petitioner's statements, however, are not supported by evidence or information in the record. The 
information in the record about each event provides details about the events in which the Petitioner 
participated, but they do not describe the awards, including the number of awardees, the criteria used 
to for selecting awardees, the selection process, or evidence of the reputation of the awards. The 
English language translation of the awards in the record state that the certificates were issued based 
on the Petitioner's "participation" at the event, rather than based on his excellence in the field of 
operating a furniture business. As the regulation specifies that the awards must be for excellence in the 
field ofendeavor, it is reasonable for the Service to require evidence that the award is merit-based, which 
discounts evidence showing mere participation in the field. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 
182-83 (D.N.J. 2021). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department ofthe organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), supra. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
4 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam-Webster's on line dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person."' Id. 
With the initial filing, the Petitioner stated that he "had the privilege of playing leading and critical 
roles in distinguished organizations throughout [his] career . . . [He] held positions of significant 
responsibility and authority, where [he] spearheaded important initiatives, guided teams, and made 
substantial contributions to the success and growth of the organizations." However, he did not name 
the organizations or provide evidence ofthe reputations ofthese organizations. Nor did he specifically 
describe his role with any organization. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that he has been a member of the Hunarmand Association 
since 2014. He provided information about the Hunarmand Association, identifying it as a "non­
profit, non-governmental public organization, founded [by Decree of the President] for further 
development of folk arts and crafts." Its purpose is "to preserve the centuries-old folk art traditions, 
promote development ofrich and diverse arts and applied arts of Uzbekistan." The information also 
indicates that the Hunarmand Association is a member ofthe World Crafts Council for the Asia Pacific 
Region, a non-governmental organization through the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization (UNESCO). 
He also provided an unsigned letter dated January 18, 2024. While the letterhead of this letter is in a 
foreign language, the body of the letter is in English. The letter states that the Petitioner "actively 
participated in many prestigious exhibitions organized by 'Hunarmand' association." The letter 
further states that the Petitioner "created a unique method in the field of wooden folk handicrafts and 
furniture with his creative thinking and unusual ideas. His household items and furniture, made by 
combining modem and national styles, decorate many houses in I 
The Director determined that this criterion was not met because the Petitioner had not established that 
he served in a leading or critical role for any organization, or that the Hunarmand Association has a 
distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that recommendation letters he submits on appeal demonstrate that 
he has played an "influential role in the industry" in partnering with organizations that he identifies as 
The Petitioner does not address the Director's conclusions 
regarding his membership in the Hunarmand Association and does not provide additional evidence 
about this organization. 
A recommendation letter from the "CEO of Iidentifies the organization as a furniture 
sales business. The letter states that the Petitioner entered into a partnership with I I that 
"marked the beginning of a project that would subsequently change standards in the Central Asian 
furniture market." Neither the letter, nor other evidence in the record, explains how the standards of 
the furniture market were changed and the role the Petitioner played. Nor does the record include 
evidence of the reputation of I I 
A recommendation letter from the "Head of the company" of identifies the 
Petitioner as a business partner in furniture manufacturing. The letter describes the Petitioner's 
5 
personal and professional qualities. Neither the letter, nor other evidence in the record, explains the 
Petitioner's role or the reputation of  
Although the Petitioner does not discuss his membership with the Hunarmand Association on appeal, 
we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not establish that he played a leading 
or critical role with this organization. The January 18, 2024 letter describes the Petitioner's role as a 
participant in exhibitions, but does not explain how his role was leading or critical to the organization. 
Although the letter mentions that he created a "unique method," the letter does not describe this 
method in detail or explain how this new method was of significant importance to the outcome of the 
Hunarmand Association's activities. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To establish eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), a petitioner must show that 
they have commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field. Evidence relevant to demonstrating an individual's high salary may include 
comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as geographical or position­
appropriate compensation surveys. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1 ), supra. 
With the initial filing, the Petitioner stated that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others 
in the field of executive management and wood working. He stated, "This is evidence from my 
successful entrepreneurship endeavors and my experience working with established large 
organizations." However, he did not provide evidence of his salary or remuneration, or comparative 
wage or remuneration of others in the field. 
The Petitioner did not address his eligibility under this criterion in the RFE response. However, the 
Director analyzed letters of recommendation in the record and concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish that his salary or remuneration is high relative to others working in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from his current employer, his own furniture business. The 
letters states that the Petitioner has "a fixed salary of 85,000,000.00 Uzbekistan Som per month." The 
Petitioner states, "This substantial salary is indicative of his high level of expertise, leadership, and 
the value he brings to the organization." 
The record does not include comparative wage data, although this was specifically requested in the 
RFE and noted in the Director's decision. Nor does the Petitioner provide evidence to support his 
claimed salary, such as tax returns, pay statements, or job contracts. A petitioner must support 
assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 
376. 
6 

Upon de novo, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
not met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Summary 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully address the totality of the materials in 
a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments as executive of a 
furniture business is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. R.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 04, 2024 In Re: 33965724 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer specializing in the field of water resources engineering , seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a civil engineer who has completed water and sewage engineering projects and 
conducted research in hydrology and sediment transport. He holds a Ph.D. in civil engineering and 
engineering mechanics from the and states that he plans to use his skills 
in water resource engineering to find suitable employment in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. We agree with the Director's conclusions 
regarding these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to his membership in associations in his field, original contributions of major significance in 
his field, and his leading or critical roles for organizations having distinguished reputations. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they are a member in an association, that the 
association is in their field of endeavor, that it requires outstanding achievements of its members, and 
that the requirement for outstanding achievements is judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields. 
2 
The Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the American Society of 
Civil Engineers, the terrestrial working group ofthe Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System, 
and the Iraqi Engineers Union (IEU) in her decision. But the Director concluded that the record does 
not include sufficient evidence about the first two associations and their requirements for membership 
to show that they require outstanding achievements, and that the bylaws ofthe IEU stated membership 
requirements which did not include outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally refers to his previously submitted evidence and asserts that the 
Director's decision regarding this criterion was in error, but he does not identify any specific errors of 
law or fact made by the Director, or point to specific evidence in the record to refute the Director's 
conclusions. For example, the Director quoted the specific individual membership requirements from 
Article 13 of the IEU's bylaws in her decision, and noted that requirements such as a minimum level 
of education are generally not considered to be outstanding achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not address the requirements, but focuses on requirements for "engineering specialization 
departments" without referencing a specific article in the bylaws or explaining its relevance to this 
criterion. In addition, while he asserts that his memberships are indicative of and demonstrate his 
outstanding achievements and recognition by national and international experts, the plain language of 
this criterion demands evidence that the associations require outstanding achievements as a condition 
for membership. As the record does not include such evidence, we concur with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made 
original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in their field of 
endeavor. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The record includes multiple types of evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including copies 
ofarticles co-authored by the Petitioner which were published in scientific journals and at conferences, 
a listing of the number of times those papers and presentations were cited by other researchers in their 
own published work, and reference letters from the Petitioner's peers, colleagues, and other experts in 
the field of civil engineering. In her decision, the Director concluded that while the articles showed 
that the Petitioner has contributed original research to his field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
those contributions were ofmajor significance. Specifically, she noted that the Petitioner did not show 
that the citations to his published research was indicative of major significance, and that the reference 
letters did not provide sufficient detail regarding the Petitioner's contributions and their impact or 
influence on other researchers in the civil and water resources engineering fields. 
Regarding the evidence of citations by other researchers to his published work, the Petitioner asserts 
on appeal that the quantity of these citations alone does not accurately reflect the significance of his 
contributions to the field of water resource engineering. He points to a letter from K-L-, who taught 
the Petitioner and served on his doctoral dissertation committee, who writes that the narrowness ofthe 
field of sediment transport has limited the number of citations to his work. We note, however, that 
3 
both the Petitioner, in his personal statement, and Professor J-D-, his doctoral advisor at identify 
his field as water resources engineering. Also, the Petitioner asserts in his appeal that his field should 
be construed broadly. While we acknowledge that researchers typically focus on a narrow area within 
their field, we will not consider the Petitioner's field to be occupied only by those who share this 
narrow focus on sediment transport. To hold otherwise would render meaningless the requirement 
that a petitioner be among the small percentage of the very top of their field by allowing them to 
narrow their field until they rank among the top of a small group in that "field." See Buletini v. INS, 
860 F.Supp. 1222, 1229 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (finding that the individual's field was medical science 
rather than nephrology). Accordingly, we consider the evidence of the quantity of citations to the 
Petitioner's published research on sediment transport as a factor in determining whether his 
contributions to the field of water resources engineering have been of major significance. 
In addition, contrary to the Petitioner's assertion on appeal, the Director did not rely solely on the 
quantity of citations to his work in making her determination under this criterion. Several of the 
reference letters in the record were considered and discussed in the decision, as was the evidence of 
the Petitioner's work on feasibility studies for water and sewage projects in Iraq. The Petitioner asserts 
that the evidence pertaining to the projects, which includes a letter from the 
I Irecognizing his and another engineer's work on the feasibility studies, shows the significance 
of this contribution and his "practical expertise in addressing critical infrastructure challenges." But 
the record includes no further information about this organization and only a partial copy of the one 
of the feasibility studies, and thus does not support the significance of this recognition or the 
contribution of these reports to the field of water resource engineering. And while the Petitioner's 
ability to draft these studies and contribute to engineering projects is shown, his skills and expertise 
are not themselves contributions which have been demonstrated to remarkably impact or influence the 
field. 
Regarding his leadership of a river monitoring project atD the Petitioner asserts that this shows his 
ability to "conduct groundbreaking research with practical implications." He focuses on appeal on the 
reference letter from K-L-, who writes that the Petitioner "has led a new direction in examining flow 
and sediment transport through vegetated areas." However, the professor further notes that this work 
"will become increasingly valuable" and that the Petitioner "has the capability to fill that gap" ofaging 
researchers soon to leave the field. The letter's focus on the Petitioner's potential future contributions 
does not aid in demonstrating that he has already made significant contributions to the field. 
Another reference letter emphasized by the Petitioner on appeal was written by U-A-, a researcher at 
I I with whom he has collaborated. The Petitioner asserts that the Director did not 
acknowledge "the immediate and practical significance" of his research, noting U-A-'s statement that 
he "immediately began to contribute by coming up with robust and smart solutions." However, the 
writer does not provide details regarding these solutions or whether or how they were implemented, 
either within the research project discussed or in the broader field of water resource engineering, and 
thus does not support their significance. And while the Petitioner criticizes the Director for 
"dismissing the potential long-term impact of [the Petitioner's] research," this criterion requires 
evidence of contributions which an individual has already made. More broadly, eligibility for the 
requested classification must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F .R. § § 103 .2(b)(1 ), (12); Matter 
of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). An evaluation of potential prospective 
contributions cannot establish that a petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director's determination and conclude that 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have served in a 
role that was either leading or critical for an organization or establishment, or a department of division 
thereof: and that the organization, establishment, department, or division has a distinguished 
reputation. Evidence of a leading role may include a title and matching duties, and should indicate 
that the petitioner is or was a leader. Evidence supporting a critical role should show that the petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or 
establishment's activities, or those of a division or department. Second, a petitioner must show that 
the organization or establishment, or department or division thereof: for which the leading or critical 
role was performed has a distinguished reputation. Factors may include the size, longevity, media 
coverage, awards, and industry rankings of the organization, establishment, department, or division. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(b)(l). 
Here, the Petitioner focuses on his role on the I Iwhile a doctoral student at 
as well as his role within the civil engineering department at the I Iin Iraq. 
Regarding the former, he highlights both letters from J-D-, one of which was written to nominate him 
as for the outstanding graduate student award in department of civil engineering. The letters 
affirm the Petitioner's leading role on this project, but as stated by the Director, a project is not an 
organization or establishment as contemplated under this criterion. This evidence does not show that 
the Petitioner's leadership ofthe project evidences a leading or critical role for the department. Neither 
J-D-' s letters nor the others from professors at show that among research projects conducted in 
the department at the time, the Petitioner's leadership ofthe _____ project was ofsignificant 
importance to the outcome ofthe department's activities. Nor do the letters suggest that the Petitioner, 
as a doctoral student, occupied a leadership role for the overall department. 
As support for his asserted qualifying role at the Petitioner highlights the letter from Dr. D-A-M­
J-, who oversees the engineering consultancy arm of the university. Dr. J-notes that the Petitioner, 
since 1998, has conducted several engineering projects for water and sewage systems, building 
sanitation systems, and swimming pools. He lists ten of these projects, and states that the projects 
completed by engineering consultancy "have a significant impact on both helping our 
community and raising fund for our university." Although he states that the Petitioner's "strong 
leadership quality" led to increased work and thus greater funds for the university, Dr. J-does not 
provide specific details on this point or indicate that the extent of the increased project work due to 
the Petitioner was of significant importance to activities. 
In addition, even if the Petitioner had shown that he played a leading or critical role for either 
organization, he has not established that eitherl Ihas a distinguisheld reputation. The evidence 
consisted of rankings showing engineering department ranked presumably among 
universities in the United States, and world university ranking at greater then 1501. Standing 
alone, this evidence is insufficient to show that either organization has distinguished itself amongst 
universities, either on a national or global basis. 
5 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment having a distinguished reputation, we conclude that he does not meet 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 04, 2024 In Re: 33667836 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievement have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate he meets the initial evidence requirement for this classification either through evidence 
of his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by documenting that he meets at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if: they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their work will substantially benefit the United States. Section 203(b )(])(A) 
of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record establishes that the Petitioner is a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete, coach, and referee who has 
been involved with the sport since 2006. He indicates that he has been employed as a coach in the 
United States since 2020 and intends to continue working in this capacity if granted lawful permanent 
resident status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner does not claim, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed he could 
meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii) and (viii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria by providing: (1) 
evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others in the field, and (2) evidence of his 
performance in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3(iv) and (viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets all four of the remaining claimed criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the classification sought. We must determine whether his evidence 
"objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description" for at least one additional criterion. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (describing the 
two-step evidentiary review of evidence submitted in support of a petition requesting extraordinary 
ability classification). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires documentation of an individual's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. The 
Petitioner submitted evidence of his receipt of gold, silver and bronze medals at competitions 
sponsored by the International Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Federation (IBJJF), BBJ Tour, and Jiu-Jitsu World 
League between 2017 and 2020. In addition, he received a gold medal at the.__ _______ __. 
Championship in 2008. 
2 
The Director, in determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
acknowledged the submitted evidence, but emphasized that because the Petitioner indicates that he 
intends to work as a coach, he could not rely on his achievements as a competitive athlete in the sport. 
As the Petitioner observes on appeal, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy 
guidance directly addresses the issue of athletes transitioning to coaching: 
Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not 
in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes have gone on to 
be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 
Where the beneficiary has had an extended period of time to establish his or her 
reputation as a coach beyond the years in which he or she had sustained national or 
international acclaim as an athlete, depending on the specific facts, officers may place 
heavier, or exclusive, weight on the evidence of the beneficiary's achievements as a 
coach or a manager. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2). Under this policy guidance, evidence of acclaim as an 
athlete cannot suffice by itself to establish extraordinary ability as a coach, but USCIS officers can 
give proportionate weight to evidence of that acclaim when the record also shows that the acclaim has 
continued into a petitioner's coaching career. Here, the record shows that the Petitioner's athletic 
career and coaching career have overlapped and that he has been exclusively coaching only since 2020. 
Therefore, the ultimate question is whether the Petitioner has shown that his coaching activity has 
been at a level consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Because acclaim is 
considered in the context of a final merits determination, evaluation of whether the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained acclaim as a coach does not require an underlying finding that he meets the 
underlying evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) based solely on his coaching activities. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Petitioner's claim that the Director erroneously disregarded evidence 
of the awards and prizes he received as a competitive athlete in Brazilian jiu-jitsu. While the record 
does not demonstrate that all his awards are qualifying , the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that his bronze medal in the adult blackbelt category at the 2017.__ ________ .... 
Championship is a nationally recognized award that satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The record contains supporting sports media articles describing this 
championship as "one of the biggest events" of the "most well-established Jiu Jitsu federation ," and 
one which gathers "the top American black belts." We will therefore withdraw the Director's finding 
that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination. 
The Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We therefore need not consider his arguments that he meets additional 
evidentiary criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not 
required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof) 
However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification 
the Petitioner seeks. USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the Petitioner's filing. 
The Director did not make such a finding. Rather than make this determination in the first instance, 
we will remand the matter to the Director. 
On remand, the Director must analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor based 
on the statutory and regulatory standards. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director should consider any 
potentially relevant evidence of record, even if it does not fit one of the evidentiary criteria or was not 
presented as comparable evidence. See generalZv 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). The 
type and quality of evidence should determine the petition's approval or denial. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 4, 2024 In Re: 33969006 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive in the vaccine industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned degrees in law and business administration in Belgium in the 1980s and early 1990s. 
After working as a lawyer for various companies in Belgium and the United Kingdom, in 1997 the 
Petitioner began working for I Imostly in Belgium, focusing on 
vaccine business development. A report from 2023 states the Petitioner's title as Senior Vice 
President and General Counsel, Vaccine Business Development and Global Health. In late 2023, the 
Petitioner became the chief business officer of _______ a new company based outside 
Washington, D.C. He is currently in the United States as an 0-1 nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the criteria, pertaining to a leading or critical 
role. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed criteria, or that he has 
submitted comparable evidence relating to those criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has established a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation, satisfying the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We also conclude that the Petitioner has established, by 
a preponderance of the evidence, that he satisfies a second criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), 
pertaining to a high salary or other significantly high remuneration. We will discuss the other claimed 
criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
The Petitioner attended annual meetings between senior leaders of and the National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), chaired by then­
NIAID Director Dr. Anthony Fauci, beginning in 2016. The Petitioner asserted that his participation in 
the senior leaders meeting is, in effect, membership in a qualifying association in the field, or comparable 
to such a membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Petitioner has not established that an annual meeting is an association in the field, and although he 
states that he was invited to participate "due to his world-renowned expertise in vaccine business 
strategy," the record, including a letter from Dr. Fauci, indicates that participation is determined by rank 
within the participating organizations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's participation in the meetings was not membership in an 
association. The Petitioner argues on appeal that "the plain language elements of the criterion do not 
readily apply to his occupation" because "vaccine business strategy and development [is] a unique field 
for which typical membership associations are not available." This argument assumes that a qualifying 
association must narrowly focus on a particular specialty. An association with a wider scope, for example 
encompassing the pharmaceutical industry or business in general, could qualify as long as its membership 
requirements conformed to the regulatory requirements. 1 The Petitioner has not established that such 
associations do not exist, or that they would exclude individuals employed in "vaccine business strategy 
and development." 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof with regard to memberships. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the published material should be about the person, relating 
to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's work or another 
organization and that organization's work. The person and the person's work need not be the only subject 
of the material, but the material should include a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner submitted press releases and articles indicating that the Petitioner was present at news 
conferences announcing the establishment of manufacturing facilities in Texas and Saudi Arabia. These 
articles include brief quotations from the Petitioner but do not detail his roles in the project or otherwise 
substantially discuss the Petitioner and his work in the field. Another article, about a legal dispute 
between the European Union and vaccine manufacturer AstraZeneca, includes quotations from the 
Petitioner intended to provide perspective, but the article does not contain substantial discussion of the 
Petitioner and his work. 
1 We note that the record shows that several individuals named in the record are members of the National Academy of 
Sciences, which is a qualifying association under the regulation despite encompassing a wide range of scientific fields. 
Membership in a business association with similar membership requirements could qualify under the regulation without 
having to narrowly tailor membership to individuals employed in "vaccine business strategy and development." 
3 
The Petitioner asserted that "many articles and press releases are written about the results of [his] 
contributions, but ... do not specifically name [him]" because "much of [his] work ... is typically behind­
the-scenes." Therefore, the Petitioner contended that published materials about business deals that he 
orchestrated should serve as comparable evidence. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's request that the articles be considered 
as comparable evidence. The Director stated: "the material cannot be treated as comparable evidence 
because the articles are clearly not about the petitioner and his work." The Director also concluded that 
the submitted materials did not meet all the regulatory requirements, such as author credits and evidence 
that the articles appeared in qualifying publications. The Petitioner submitted some circulation data from 
a third-party website, but this information does not show that the trade or other media qualify as "major" 
as the regulation requires. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director improperly required "comparable evidence" to meet 
the same regulatory requirements. We acknowledge that comparable evidence, by its nature, would not 
precisely conform to all the regulatory requirements. Nevertheless, the Petitioner must establish that the 
criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. The assertion that he works "behind-the-scenes" does 
not appear to suffice in this regard. Even if his work attracts little attention from mainstream media for 
public consumption, the regulation also contemplates professional and trade publications, which are 
tailored to narrower, more specialized readerships. 
The Petitioner observes that, under the USCIS Policy Manual, we "may consider material that focuses 
solely or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team of which the person is a member, 
provided that the material mentions the person in connection with the work or other evidence in the record 
documents the person's significant role in the work or research." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). Here, much of the published material focuses on the establishment of research 
centers, but the focus of those articles is not on the underlying business negotiations. 
Some of the published materials support the conclusion that the Petitioner has performed in leading or 
critical roles, as covered by a separate criterion. Articles naming the Petitioner as a participant in high­
profile news conferences can have some weight in a final merits determination. But the Petitioner has 
not met his burden ofproof to show that he has been the subject ofpublished material in qualifying media 
to meet this specific criterion, nor has he shown that the criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner asserted that he "led vaccine development and pandemic preparedness efforts over the 
course of two modem pandemics -the 2010 HlNl Flu pandemic and the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic." 
The Petitioner stated that his "business accomplishments include serving as the lead and driving force 
behind numerous high-profile transactions" involving The Petitioner submitted documentation 
concerning several ofthese transactions, such as vaccine licensing agreements and the establishment of a 
sponsored by the U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services, on the campus of _______ 
4 
The Petitioner submitted letters from some very prominent figures, such as Dr. Fauci, mentioned above, 
and Rick Perry, governor of Texas from 2000 to 2015. These individuals and others described the 
Petitioner's role in coordinating efforts that, in Dr. Fauci's words, "served to facilitate the collaborative 
mission between the greater NIH andl I For example, Dr. Fauci stated that the Petitioner "personally 
negotiated and/or oversaw several critical licensing agreements between the NIH and the I I 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had shown that he had made original contributions, but had 
not established their major significance in the field. The Director repeatedly referred to "scientific 
contributions." 
But it bears emphasis that the Petitioner does not claim to be a scientist or a researcher. The Petitioner's 
training is in law and business administration, and his work has involved business negotiations rather than 
scientific research. The nature of the Petitioner's business contributions, and of the evidence regarding 
those contributions and their significance, will likely differ from the types of evidence we would expect 
regarding scientific contributions. By viewing the Petitioner's contributions through the lens of 
"scientific contributions," the Director appears to have imposed standards that do not apply to the business 
contributions documented in the record. 
As the Director appears to have viewed this evidence under the wrong field, we will remand this matter 
for further consideration. The Director must view the Petitioner's business contributions in the proper 
context, and request additional evidence if the Director deems it necessary. 
III. CONCLUSION 
While we affirm some of the Director's specific determinations, what remains may be sufficient to 
meet three of the initial evidentiary criteria. We will therefore remand the matter to the Director for 
further consideration of the original contributions criterion. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner has met his burden of proof regarding that criterion, the 
Director shall then proceed to a final merits determination as described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. We emphasize that the Petitioner claims extraordinary ability in business, not in the 
sciences. Therefore the Director should neither expect the types of evidence normally seen in the 
sciences, nor draw adverse conclusions from the Petitioner's inability to submit such evidence. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 4, 2024 In Re: 33942824 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a researcher who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish her eligibility. The matter is now before us 
on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christa 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner completed her PhD in Biological Science in 2022, and when she filed the petition she 
worked for a clinical-stage biotechnology company. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to 
judging and authoring scholarly articles, but she had not satisfied the criteria associated with original 
contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the 
contributions criterion as well as performing in a leading or critical role. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's ultimate determination. 
We begin addressing counsel's argument in the appeal brief that the Director improperly invoked a 
precedent decision: Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45 (Reg'l Comrn'r 1971). The Director accepted 
the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile printout she filed with the petition, but when she offered an 
updated profile in her request for evidence (RFE) response, the Director cited to Katigbak and noted they 
would only consider evidence that existed on the date she filed the petition. While the Petitioner attempts 
to distinguish this case's facts with those in Katigbak and they view this as an error, we do not. Katigbak, 
14 I&N Dec. at 49 provides: 
If the petition is approved, he has established a priority date for visa number assignment 
as of the date that petition was filed. A petition may not be approved for a profession for 
which the Beneficiary is not qualified at the time of its filing. The Beneficiary cannot 
expect to qualify subsequently by taking additional courses and then still claim a priority 
date as of the date the petition was filed, a date on which he was not qualified. 
Section 204 ofthe Act requires the filing of a visa petition for classification under section 
203(a)(3). The latter section states, in pertinent part: "Visas shall next be made available 
to qualified immigrants who are members of the professions." (Emphasis added.) It is 
clear that it was the intent of Congress that an alien be a recognized and fully qualified 
member of the professions at the time the petition is filed. Congress did not intend that a 
petition that was properly denied because the Beneficiary was not at that time qualified 
be subsequently approved at a future date when the Beneficiary may become qualified 
2 
under a new set of facts. To do otherwise would make a farce of the preference system 
and priorities set up by statute and regulation. 
Id. The Regional Commissioner continued this reasoning in Matter of Wing's Tea House, 16 T&N Dec. 
158, 160 (Reg'l Cornrn'r 1977). That decision reemphasizes the importance of not obtaining a priority 
date prior to being eligible based on future experience. In fact, despite counsel's assertion to the contrary, 
this principle has been extended beyond the foreign national's eligibility for the classification sought. For 
example, an employer must establish its ability to pay the proffered wage as ofthe date of filing. Matter 
of Great Wall, 16 I&N Dec. 142, 144--45 (Acting Reg'l Comm'r 1977). That decision provides that a 
petition should not become approvable under a new set of facts. Recognizing that Matter ofKatigbak, 
14 I&N Dec. at 49 was not "foursquare with the instant case" in that it dealt with a beneficiary's eligibility, 
Great Wall, 16 I&N Dec. at 145 still applies the reasoning. The decision provides: 
In sixth-preference visa petition proceedings the Service must consider the merits of the 
Petitioner's job offer, so that a determination can be made whether the job offer is realistic 
and whether the wage offer can be met, as well as determine whether the alien meets the 
minimum requirements to perform the offered job satisfactorily. It follows that such 
consideration by the Service would necessarily be focused on the circumstances at the 
time offiling of the petition. The Petitioner in the instant case cannot expect to establish 
a priority date for visa issuance for the Beneficiary when at the time of making the job 
offer and the filing of the petition with this Service he could not, in all reality, pay the 
salary as stated in the job offer. 
(Emphasis in original.) Finally, when evaluating revisions to a partnership agreement the Associate 
Commissioner stated that "a petition cannot be approved at a future date after the Petitioner becomes 
eligible under a new set of facts." Matter oflzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). The 
Izummi decision further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent 
to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. "To do otherwise would make a farce ofthe preference system and 
priorities set up by statute and regulation." Matter ofBardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114, 117 (BIA 1981 ). 
While citations published after the date of filing may serve as evidence of the continued relevance of a 
foreign national's work that had already been well cited as of the filing date, they cannot be considered 
evidence that they were already influential as ofthat date. Moreover, a petitioner's articles that were not 
published as of the date of filing and, thus, had not been subject to peer review and disseminated in the 
field as ofthat date, cannot establish eligibility as ofthe date of filing. To hold otherwise would have the 
untenable result of a foreign national securing a priority date based on the speculation that their work 
might prove influential while the petition is pending. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12) 
further supports this limitation and requires a filing party to demonstrate eligibility as of the date they 
file the petition. 
A. Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions 
ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 ( citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
3 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 586 U.S. 392,415 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Director discussed the Petitioner's evidence to include her publication record, the journal rankings 
where her works were published, opinion letters from others in her field, and her judging service. 
While the Director acknowledged the originality of her work, they determined that she did not 
demonstrate that work was already ofmajor significance in her field. Within the appeal, the Petitioner 
divides the brief into two sections. The first section discusses evidence the Director didn't mention in 
the denial, or didn't adequately evaluate. Within the second section, the Petitioner asserts the Director 
did not evaluate the evidence under the preponderance standard. Because there is some evidentiary 
crossover between the two sections, for simplicity, we will follow the same format in this decision that 
the Petitioner used in the appeal brief. 
1. Evidence the Director Ignored or Failed to Evaluate 
On appeal the Petitioner argues the Director either ignored or did not evaluate some of her evidence. 
For instance, regarding to her evidence relating to the citation percentiles, the Petitioner submitted an 
article to the Director from Scientometrics authored by Lutz Bornmann and W emer Marx, entitled 
"How to evaluate individual researchers working in the natural and life sciences meaningfully? A 
proposal of methods based on percentiles of citations." 
This article presented their opinions for "how to evaluate individual researchers in the natural and life 
sciences" for purposes of fonding and promotion or hiring decisions. The authors stated that 
"publications which are among the 10% most cited publications in their subject area are as a rule called 
highly cited or excellent" and that "the top l0% based excellence indicator" should be given "the 
highest weight when comparing the scientific performance of single researchers." But the Petitioner 
did not offer evidence establishing reputable academic or professional organizations have accepted 
and implemented these authors' methodology. Here, the Petitioner has not shown their alleged abuse 
of discretion, nor does this evidence satisfy their burden of persuasion. See Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N 
Dec. 1136, 1142 n.3 (BIA 1998) (finding that a petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial 
burden of production, as well as the ultimate burden of persuasion). 
We further note these authors advise against "using Google Scholar (GS) as a basis for bibliometric 
analysis. Several studies have pointed out that GS has numerous deficiencies for research evaluation." 
Yet, the Petitioner has relied on Google Scholar materials throughout these proceedings. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted OpenAlex author metrics she claims compares her citation 
impact to that of other researchers. While this information lists a percentile ranking, we note issues 
that diminish the evidentiary value of the evidence. First, the material is not dated. Second, the 
document simply lists categories and data associated with those categories and it does not reflect that 
4 
the actual source ofthe information was OpenAlex as claimed. And third, the Petitioner did not submit 
material revealing the method by which the presented figures were calculated. This collectively means 
we have no method to verify the information the Petitioner presented. Although this does not render 
the evidence to be of no worth, its value is significantly diminished. The Petitioner cannot meet her 
burden of proof relying on this qualitatively deficient material. In evaluating the evidence, the truth 
is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. at 376 (quoting Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
Other material the Petitioner claims the Director did not consider consists of media articles, but a 
review of that material reveals it is insufficient. The New York Post and New York Daily News articles 
mentioned the university where the Petitioner received her PhD, but they do not mention her. Nor 
does the Business Insider article make any mention of the Petitioner. While we agree with the 
Petitioner that the Director did not analyze these articles, the Petitioner has not shown they are relevant 
to her claims that she has made contributions ofmajor significance in her field, and we do not consider 
this to be a proper basis for the Petitioner's appeal. 
And finally, the Petitioner claims the Director "did not engage with the letters of recommendation" 
from four authors. She asserts the authors of these four letters discussed the influence of the 
Petitioner's findings on the authors' own research work. She further mentions that two other letters 
discussed the impact of her research on the field at large. The appeal brief does not discuss each letter 
and convey how the individual author expressed her achievements in a manner that would help her in 
fulfilling this criterion's requirements. Based on this shortcoming and because the burden rests with 
the Petitioner to demonstrate how the Director erred, we will discuss a sampling of the letters. 
The Petitioner's advisor at the university where she earned her PhD discussed both her and his 
qualifications and indicated that she discovered that a medication the Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) approved to treat a form of arthritis (auranofin) was highly beneficial in limiting the severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-COV-2) infection. He further noted that her 
research contributed foundational knowledge needed to develop therapeutic treatments for COVID-19 
and similar viruses. 
However, this merely expresses the originality of her research but is absent of information relating to 
how that original research impacted the field. This is inadequate to show that the Petitioner's 
contributions rose to a level of major significance. 
Next, we discuss a sample of the letters in which the authors discussed the influence ofthe Petitioner's 
work on their own and on other researchers' work. We will review the letter from _____ 
an assistant professor of microbiology and cell biology in India. Within his letter he described how 
the Petitioner's same research relating to the FDA-approved arthritis drug auranofin was incorporated 
into work ublished in The Lancet Res irato Medicine. But a review ofthat work titled, 
____ does not reveal that the authors found her work to be an overall benefit to prospective 
patients. Instead, the authors found that auranofin resulted in life-threatening conditions such as low 
5 
blood platelet counts and intra-abdominal sepsis leading to the death oftest subjects. 1 The Petitioner's 
research contribution appears to be the type others in her field might want to avoid in treating 
COVID-19 patients, rather than the effective type of contribution to the field that the Petitioner 
presents it as in the appeal brief. Even though-as we have here-methods and treatment the field 
should avoid can be considered to be a contribution to the field, we conclude the Petitioner has not 
established that the evidence in the form of opinion letters adequately supports her claims under this 
criterion. 
And to close out this section, we note that the lack of a direct discussion of evidence does not mean 
that the Director ignored it; it instead may mean that they considered it and concluded it was 
unpersuasive. See United States v. Teixeira, 62 F.4th 10, 25 (1st Cir. 2023) (concluding a trier of fact 
"need not articulate its conclusions as to every jot and tittle of evidence in making a determination"). 
"Nothing is to be gained by a laundry-list recital of all evidence on the record supporting each view 
on every issue." Puerto Rico Mar. Shipping Auth. v. Fed. Mar. Comm 'n, 678 F.2d 327,351 (D.C. Cir. 
1982). 
2. Preponderance of the Evidence Standard of Proof 
The appeal brief couches the Petitioner's claims of the originality of her contributions, as well as that 
those contributions are of major significance, within the broader rubric that the Director did not apply 
the appropriate standard ofproof: the preponderance ofthe evidence standard. Because the originality 
of her work was never in question, we will move to whether her contributions to the field rose to the 
level of major significance. 
Before we address the remainder ofthe Petitioner's claims, we provide the foundation for the standard 
of proof. As with most administrative proceedings, the standard of proof for this petition is the 
preponderance of the evidence. The preponderance standard of proof is the degree, or level, of proof 
demanded in a specific case. We are ultimately deciding whether a petitioner's claims are sufficiently 
supported by relevant, probative, and credible evidence. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 369 reiterated the 
longstanding principle for the preponderance standard of proof. Ultimately, the truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Id. at 376 ( citing E-M-, 20 I&N 
Dec. at 79-80). 
Now to the Petitioner's claims relating to her citation record and other opinion letters. For her citation 
record, the Petitioner identifies her published scholarly works and a book chapter she co-authored, her 
Google Scholar profile, and both the initially provided and the RFE response evidence from Clarivate 
Analytics InCites Essential Science Indicators. As we noted above, any material the Petitioner 
provided with the initially filed petition should factor into ours and the Director's decision but 
documentation submitted after that date that reflects her subsequent achievements will not play a role 
in this petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12); Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. at 49. 
The Petitioner's Google Scholar profile reflected she had published nine works as of the date she filed 
the petition. Only two of those papers received more than 28 citations. In this portion of the Petitioner's 
Robert S Wallis, et al., I 
(2021). 
6 1 
appeal brief, she does not explain how her Google Scholar profile individually, or combined with other 
evidence, demonstrates she has made contributions to her field that are ofmajor significance. And within 
the appeal brief' s other portions she does not adequately explain it either other than to state that the 
Director: 
[E]essentially dismissed the evidence of [the Petitioner's] 455 citations" and "USCIS reasoned 
that "[e ]ven highly cited publications alone" [] were not sufficient to meet the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "absent evidence that they were of 'major significance' as a citation 
number or ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance 
of a given researcher's work in the field" 
She then reengages the argument that the Director misapplied the Katigbak decision, which we 
disposed of as incorrect above. 
Although the Petitioner claims that citations to her work demonstrate a contribution of major 
significance, she has not demonstrated that the number of citations is significant. Nor has she shown 
that a notable number of the citing authors placed unusual reliance on her work, resulting in a 
significant impact within the field. Researchers throughout a given field may cite other published 
works without the cited work being notably influential or serving as a foundational basis for their own 
work. Even though others within the Petitioner's field have relied on her research findings within 
their own work, this is not sufficient to demonstrate that she has made contributions of major 
significance within the field. We agree that such references to her work are a contribution in the field, 
the evidence the Petitioner submitted reflects such reliance is only an incremental contribution. 
This portion of the appeal also identifies two additional opinion letters she claims plainly describe her 
research and explain why it is ofmajor significance. The first letter is the same document we evaluated 
above from the Petitioner's advisor at the university where she attained her PhD, and he discusses the 
same original findings in which she discovered the effectiveness of an FDA-approved arthritis drug to 
treat SARS-COV-2. We reiterate that this treatment was later found to have possibly deadly or 
life-threatening effects in COVID-19 patients. Nevertheless, the Petitioner's advisor explained how 
these were original findings, stated it was significant, but stopped short of describing how those 
findings had any discernible effect in her field of endeavor. 
The second letter the Petitioner identifies is from Dr . _____ in which he discussed the need 
for a vaccine that simultaneously protects against COVID-19 and influenza viruses, and which this 
foreign national addressed through her research. He explained that she created a streamlined approach 
to vaccinations by simplifying the process, the vaccine's success in testing on mice, and indicated it 
provided insights into the development of multivalent vaccines. But he too falls short of delineating 
any impact of the Petitioner's approach within her field. 
And finally, the Petitioner contends that USCIS "fail[ed] to engage with all of the relevant evidence 
submitted in this case." Although we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not directly discuss 
every piece of evidence that she considers as salient to qualifying under this program, she has not 
established how those omitted elements demonstrated her eligibility. In other words, the Petitioner 
did not explain how the Director's failure to discuss every document in detail changed the outcome of 
the case. And such a showing is the Petitioner's burden, which she fell short of meeting. 
7 
When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it 
will not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it 
to address every piece of evidence the foreign national presents. Amin, 24 F.4th at 394; Martinez v. 
INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir. 1992); ajf'd Morales v. INS, 208 F.3d 323, 328 (1st Cir. 2000); see 
also Pakasi v. Holder, 577 F.3d 44, 48 (1st Cir. 2009); Kazemzadeh v. US. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 
1351 ( I Ith Cir. 2009). It is not enough to demonstrate errors in an agency's decision; the Petitioner 
must also establish that she was prejudiced by the mistakes. Shinseki v. Sanders, 556 U.S. 396, 409 
(2009); Molina-Martinez v. United States, 578 U.S. 189,203 (2016); Amin, 24 F.4th at 394. 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated she was prejudiced by the lack of discussion of any evidence, 
even if we agreed that this was an error, such a lapse appears harmless and is insufficient grounds 
upon which to base this appeal. Errors can be overlooked when they had no bearing on the substance 
of an agency's decision. Aguilar v. Garland, 60 F.4th 401, 407 (8th Cir. 2023) (citing Prohibition 
Juice Co. v. United States Food & Drug Admin., 45 F.4th 8, 24 (D.C. Cir. 2022)). The party that 
"seeks to have a judgment set aside because of an erroneous ruling carries the burden of showing that 
prejudice resulted." Shinseki, 556 U.S. at409 (quotingPalmerv. Hoffinan, 318 U.S. 109,116 (1943)); 
Molina-Martinez, 578 U.S. at 203. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
B. Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments 
that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed her eligibility under this criterion in the RFE response, but the Director did not 
offer any analysis relating to her claims or evidence in the denial decision. 
A leading role should be apparent by its position 
in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the entity's 
activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it was leading or critical 
for organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments as a whole. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization, establishment, division, or department 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a unit subordinate to these listed entities. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. ( citing to the 
definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, 
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence 
satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The evidence reflects the named organization has a positive reputation and has experienced some 
notable successes. But the Petitioner did not offer probative evidence that, within its industry, this 
entity has a distinguished reputation meaning: 
8 
• It is in "a position of prominence or superiority"2; 
• It has "the quality or state of being excellent or superior"3; or 
• It has "the quality ofbeing excellent"4 or "very good ofits kind : eminently good : first-class" 5. 
The evidence in the record does not adequately reflect this entity enjoys a distinguished reputation and 
we will not presume as much based on its work "closely tied" to a COVID-19 vaccine and therapeutic 
development initiative with the U.S. government. The Petitioner did not explain why government 
grants, contracts, or other forms of financial support illustrate this organization's distinguished 
reputation. Government grants or funding do not necessarily establish that the receiving organization 
or establishment "is 'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence ....'" Chursov v. Miller, No. 
18-CV-2886 (PKC), 2019 WL 2085199, at *8 (S.D.N.Y. May 13, 2019). Additionally, the majority 
of the supporting evidence was either news releases from the company itself, only portions of a 
document, or material that postdated the petition filing date. 
Regarding the news releases from the company itself, this does not amount to independent, objective 
evidence establishing that it has a distinguished reputation pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Much like with self-promotion relating to published material under a different 
criterion, USCIS is not required to rely on the self-promotional material of a company and "we may 
require more than the publication's own say-so that it" has a distinguished reputation. Cf Krasniqi v. 
Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D.N.J. 2021) (citing Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO 
FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) 
( concluding that we did not have to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a 
magazine as to the magazine's status as major media)); Cuckic v. Jaddou, No. 21-CV-8395 (JPO), 
2023 WL 2586031, at *5 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 21, 2023). 
And pertaining to the evidence that postdated the petition filing date, a petitioner must establish 
eligibility at the time they file the visa petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). USCIS may not approve 
a visa petition if the petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but expects to become eligible at 
a subsequent time. See Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. at 175-76; Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. at 49. 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate the organization enjoys a 
distinguished reputation and that is dispositive of this claim, it is unnecessary for us to evaluate 
whether she performed in a leading or critical role for the entity. In sum, the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
2 Eminence, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary (Sept. 27, 2024), https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/eminence. 
3 Distinction (sense 4), Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary (Sept. 30, 2024), https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinction. 
4 Excellence, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary (Oct. 3, 2024), https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/excellence. 
5 Excellent, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary (Sept. 17, 2024), https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/excellent. 
9 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 4, 2024 In Re: 33311070 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a journalist who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a 
new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met six of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to published material and 
judging but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or awards, original 
contributions, display of the Petitioner's work, or her performance in a leading or critical role. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets each of the evidentiary criteria the Director declined to 
grant. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's analysis on the 
criteria they granted, but other regulatory requirements require further review. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed two awards. The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) relating 
to both awards and the Petitioner responded with additional evidence addressing the I I 
International Award. The Director's decision did not address the additional claims or evidence but 
indicated that she offered no new evidence in response to the RFE and determined the Petitioner did 
not satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate all evidence related to the Beneficiary's awards to determine 
whether she had received an award that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) at the time 
she filed the petition in November 2022. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
The Petitioner provided several articles and the Director determined that the Petitioner met the 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner provided two instances ofjudging the work of others and the Director decided she met 
the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the.field. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided evidence she launched the digital version ofa lifestyle and women's magazine 
that has reached beyond the borders of her home country. The Director discussed this initiative in the 
RFE and the Petitioner responded with additional claims explaining how this effort satisfies this 
criterion's requirements. The Director's decision did not address the additional claims and only 
indicated that she offered no new evidence in response to the RFE and determined the Petitioner's 
evidence was not adequate. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate all claims and evidence under this requirement to determine 
whether those contributions rise to the level of major significance in her field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner claimed her work was on display for public audiences at live journalism events and on 
podcasts. The Director correctly determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this 
criterion as she did "not demonstrate that any ofher work product was on display at artistic exhibitions 
or [artistic] showcases." An October 2, 2024 users Policy Manual update clarified that "[w]hile the 
dictionary definition includes public showings other than those that are artistic in nature, the plain 
language of the criterion includes the modifier 'artistic' and explicitly requires that the exhibitions or 
showcases be artistic in nature. users only considers non-artistic exhibitions or showcases as part of 
a properly supported claim of comparable evidence ...." See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. It appears the Director properly applied agency 
policy and the Petitioner did not advance a comparable evidence claim here. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner's claims under this criterion relate to her service as editorial manager for a lifestyle and 
women's magazine. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this 
criterion. The Director noted the evidence in the record did not describe the Petitioner's duties for the 
publication to show her role was leading for the organization, and further decided a lack of material 
showing how the Petitioner's performance in her role was critical to the publication's success. 
Although the Director concluded that El Nacional (the newspaper within which the publication was 
3 
launched) is an organization with a distinguished reputation, they indicated the lifestyle and women's 
magazine did not enjoy such a reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the lifestyle and women's magazine is distinguished by "virtue 
of its publishing its contents under the umbrella of the nationally recognized publication El Nacional" 
which the Director conceded enjoyed a distinguished reputation. We do not agree that the subordinate 
magazine may impute its reputation from the parent newspaper, and instead the Petitioner must show 
the magazine itself enjoys that distinguished status on its own right. Otherwise, it would be necessary 
for the Petitioner to prove that she performed in a leading or critical role for El Nacional. 
That is not to say that we conclude the record lacks any evidence relating to the lifestyle and women's 
magazine's own reputation that it appears the Director may not have considered. The RFE response 
noted evidence reflecting it was Venezuela's first ever publication that was licensed for use in at least 
10 other countries, as well as other material described in the RFE response that directly related to the 
lifestyle and women's magazine's reputation. The Petitioner's RFE response also contained additional 
claims and evidence regarding her leading or critical role for the magazine, but it is not apparent from 
the decision that the Director fully considered that content. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate all evidence related to the Beneficiary's claims under this 
criterion to determine whether the Petitioner has fulfilled her requirements. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As we discuss above, the denial decision did not include all of the required types of analysis and we 
will remand the matter for a new decision. On remand, if the Director deems it necessary, they may 
issue a new RFE prior to issuing a final decision. Should the Director conclude that the Petitioner 
meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final merits analysis 
of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated sustained national or 
international acclaim and received recognition for achievements in her field, identifying her as one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Within any final merits determination, the 
Director should also consider any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even ifit does not fit one 
of the initial evidentiary criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. at F.2(B)(2). The 
petition's approval or denial depends on the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9433786 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher focusing his work in the areas ofradiation biology, neuroscience, and Gulf 
War Illness (GWI), seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence to meet the initial evidentiary requirement, meeting at least three of the 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record did not establish that he had sustained national or 
international acclaim or was one of the small percentage at the top of his field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider evidence in the record and applied incorrect legal 
standards. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an assistant professor in the Department of Radiation Oncology at the University of 
. He received his Ph.D. in pharmaceutical sciences from I !University 
._1-·n_2_0_0_8_,_a_n_d_c_o_m_p_l_et_e_.d his initial postdoctoral training a~ !university before joiningc=J He 
intends to continue to pursue his research in the areas of radiation biology, neuroscience, and Gulf 
War Illness(GWI). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, judge of the 
work of others in his field, and published material about him and his work in major media. However, 
he did not explain in his decision what evidence supported these findings, or explain why the evidence 
supporting two other criteria was found to be insufficient. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we disagree with the Director's finding regarding the criterion pertaining to published material 
about him, and withdraw that portion of his decision. Further, we agree that the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of the other two criteria, but find that he does not meet the requisite third criterion to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirement of the extraordinary ability classification. 
2 
We note that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence along with his appeal brief Where, as here, 
a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity 
to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). As the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) which included an explanation of 
the deficiencies in the record and a list of evidence that could be submitted to overcome those 
deficiencies, we will not consider this new evidence in our decision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As noted above, the Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion, but did not indicate his reason 
for that finding or provide an analysis of the evidence submitted. The record includes several media 
articles published on the websites of organizations and publications such as Science Daily, NBC News, 
The Scientist Magazine, The Economic Times, NDTV and The Hindzt1. These articles report on 
scholarly articles written by the Petitioner and his colleagues about the effects of radiation on the brain 
and central nervous system, due to either space travel or cancer treatment. While several of these 
articles identify the Petitioner as a researcher who contributed to the research results discussed, and 
some include the same quote from him, none of these articles are about him, but are instead about the 
research and its conclusions and implications. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Accordingly, 
we disagree with the Director and withdraw his finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner has served as a peer reviewer for articles submitted to 
journals such as Radiation Research, Food, and Cancer Biotherapy and Radiopharmaceuticals. In 
addition, he serves as an editor for the journals Innovare Journal of Health Science and Inda Global 
Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences. We therefore agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
1 We note that several of these publications carried a Reuters article with little or no modification. 
3 
The Petitioner claims to have made original scientific contributions of major significance focused in 
radiation biology, neuroscience and GWI treatment, and submitted ten reference letters in support of 
these claims. 2 On appeal, he asserts that the Director failed to give adequate consideration to these 
letters. Upon review, we first note that several of the letters share a common structure, including 
separate, titled sections devoted to the writer's opinion of whether the Petitioner meets certain 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and include frequent repetition of the regulatory 
language under these criteria. For example, a letter froml lof0 includes 
an initial section titled [ The Petitioner J is a scientist with extraordinaj ability who is currently playing 
a critical role in our laboratory at the University J~------~ and a second section titled [The 
Petitioner J has made innovative and original scientific contributions o ma ·or si ni zcance in co nitive 
neuroscience and radiation biolo'jc'.. Similarly, a letter from.__ ___________ __. of the 
University I contains several section headings, including [The Petitioner J has 
made original and novel research contributions of major significance in the field of ionizing radiation, 
neuroscience, galactic cosmic rays, Gulf War Illness, cognitive and mood deficits, epilepsy, and PTSD, 
and [The Petitioner's J research contributions have national or even global implications within the 
fields of his endeavor, as evidenced by his publications in high-impact professional journals with 
international circulation. Other reference letters in the record replace the section headings with 
sentences in bold at the beginning of some paragraphs, also repeating the regulatory language. 
As a general concept, when an alien has provided affidavits from different persons that contribute to 
the alien's eligibility claim, but the language and structure contained within the affidavits is strikingly 
similar, the trier of fact may treat those similarities as a basis for questioning the claims of the 
alien. See Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006). When 
affidavits contain such similarities, it is reasonable to infer that the alien who submitted the strikingly 
similar documents is the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. See Mei Chai Ye 
v. US. Dept. o_f Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007). Here, the similar structure of these reference 
letters strongly indicates that the Petitioner or his representative is the source of the content of these 
letters. We farther note that several of the reference letters describe the Petitioner's research as having 
"been reduced to" papers which were published in journals, a phrase which also appears in the 
Petitioner's own written statement. As such, the evidentiary value of these reference letters m 
demonstrating the significance of the Petitioner's contributions is greatly diminished. 3 
In addition, the letters include frequent repetition of the regulatory language of this (as well as other) 
criteria beyond the section headings and bolded sentences, but do not adequately explain how the 
Petitioner's research has led to contributions of major significance. I l's letter describes, 
in great detail, the Petitioner's research on the cognitive effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy 
("chemo brain"), as well as the damaging effects of galactic cosmic rays on the central nervous system, 
and indicates that this work has potential applications to the improvement of cancer patient health and 
2 All of the reference letters in the record have been thoroughly reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in 
this decision. 
3 We also note that several of the reference letters provide historical and circulation or viewership information about some 
of the media outlets which have published articles about the Petitioner's research, and others include data and graphics 
from third-party sources about the level of attention to certain of the Petitioner's published articles, information which 
appears in separate evidence in the record discussed below. The appearance of this outside, second or third hand 
information in the letters provides additional indication as to the source of the content of these letters, and fmiher dimishes 
their evidentiary value. 
4 
to minimizing health risks during space travel. However, we note that despitq I having 
supervised and collaborated with the Petitioner atc=J for approximately eight years prior to the filing 
of this petition, he does not provide insights into the Petitioner's role in and contribution to these 
research projects, stating only that he "has had an impact on my productivity in research" and "has 
worked on several projects." In addition, in discussing the significance of these contributions, the 
letter refers to the prestige of the journals in which this work has been published, and the attention it 
has received in popular media. But we will not assume that all papers published in prestigious 
scientific journals have impact or influence on their respective fields, and I ldoes not 
explain how attention to the Petitioner's research in popular or general media reflects a significant 
contribution to the scientific field. 
Similarly,.__ ______ ___, who also collaborated with the Petitioner at D describes four 
different research projects in which the Petitioner participated, including his development of a 
computer model to assess the effects of radiation on the brain. Much like in I ts letter, 
he describes the potential impact of this research on the field, indicating that the model "will be 
extremely valuable for accurately and efficiently interpreting experimental data ... " He also points to 
the prestige of the journals in which some of the Petitioner's papers have been published, as well as 
media coverage of the Petitioner's research on the effects of cranial irradiation, stating that coverage 
"by mainstream media outlets and professional publications ... is evidence of the major significance 
of his original research contributions in the neuroscience field." However, repetition of the regulatory 
language here and in other reference letters in the record does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of 
proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 
(2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 
1997). I !does not indicate that the Petitioner's research has remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
Another reference letter was submitted by.__ ________ __. ofl IUniversityl~-~ 
who states that he is familiar with the Petitioner's work on the effects of low dose radiation on neural 
stem and precursor cells, and cited to the Petitioner's article published in the journal Antioxidants and 
Redox Signal. However, he does not explain why he cited to this paper or how it affected his research, 
but instead describes several of the Petitioner's other research projects, some of which were also 
described in the reference letters previously discussed. I lalso focuses on the prestige of 
the journals in which the Petitioner's work has been published, and the coverage of research projects 
in which the Petitioner was involved by major media outlets. But he does not explain how this major 
media coverage shows a contribution to other researchers in the field, rather than serving as an 
indicator of popular interest in the subject matter. 
.__ _________ ___, also submitted a reference letter on behalf of the Petitioner, in which she 
initially focuses on his research on GWI. She explains that the Petitioner exposed rats to low doses of 
chemicals to which Gulf War veterans had been exposed and determined that combined exposure to 
these chemicals affected both mood and cognitive abilities. I lalso indicates that the 
Research Advisory Committee (RAC), created by Congress in 1998, "adopted [the Petitioner's] results 
in understanding the Gulf War illness in veterans" and "frequently referenced [the Petitioner's] 
publication in detail in its public report." However, the record does not include a report from the RAC 
to substantiate this statement. A document titled The Gu(f War Illness Landscape was submitted, 
which was created by the Department of Defense Gulf War Illness Research Program. It notes that a 
5 
paper authored by the Petitioner was one of several reporting the effects of exposure to a low dose 
chemical combination in rodents. But this single citation does not show that the Petitioner's work was 
"frequently referenced," and this report does not otherwise demonstrate that it has been of major 
significance in the understanding, diagnosis or treatment of GWI. 
All of the reference letters discussed above, as well as additional letters not discussed, mention the 
total number of papers authored and coauthored by the Petitioner, and the total number of citations to 
these papers by other scientists in their own published work. However, although the total number of 
citations to the Petitioner's published work is one of several factors that may be appropriately weighed 
in a final merits determination to determine whether he is one of the small percentage at the top of his 
field, he has not demonstrated the value of this overall citation data in assessing whether the individual 
contributions he has made to his field have been of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submitted data about the rate of citation to his individual papers, from several third­
party sources, which he asserts on appeal was not considered by the Director in his decision. The first 
set of data the Petitioner refers to is the Altmetric Attention Score, which the evidence indicates "is 
calculated based on two main sources of online attention: social media and mainstream news media." 
The Petitioner notes that three of the journals in which his papers have been published "repeatedly 
report that [the Petitioner's] scientific papers published in the journals are one of the top viewed/read 
papers or have received one of the highest Altmetric Attention Scores," and submits evidence 
regarding six of his papers. On review of this evidence, it appears to be more accurate to state that 
these journals provide access on their websites to this and other data from third arties. The descri tion 
of this data presented along with the Petitioner's co-authored article .__ ______ -I 
'----------------' ' which was published in the journal Scientific Reports in states 
that this score "is calculated based on two main sources of online attention: social media and 
mainstream news media." As mentioned in the Director's decision, this attention includes mentions 
in news articles, blogs, and Twitter, Facebook and Google+ posts. While the Petitioner asserts that 
this evidence shows national or international acclaim and that he's one of the small percentage at the 
top of his field, an argument more appropriate in a final merits analysis, he does not explain or 
demonstrate that even very high attention in social media and mainstream news media is indicative of 
the subject research being of major significance to other scientists conducting radiation biology, 
neuroscience, and GWI research. 
Another set of data presented by the Petitioner is intended to compare the rate and frequency of 
citations to his articles to those of other scientists in his field. In response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE), he submitted tables from Clarivate Analytics showing "baseline" citation rates in a 
small number of broad fields for the years 2008 through 2018, as well percentiles showing citation 
figures for the same fields and years. The Petitioner states, for example, that a paper which was 
published in the journal Experimental Neurology in~ was cited by other researchers on 14 
occasions, and notes that this data indicates that that "is 16.66 times higher than the average." 
However, although a paper which has been cited on 14 occasions in one year has received more 
attention from other researchers than a paper cited only once in that same time period, we cannot infer 
from this data that the research described in the former paper has therefore made a contribution of 
major significance in a particular field. 
6 
Additional data from Clarivate Analytics indicates that the number of citations to some of the 
Petitioner's published papers places them in the top 10% or top 1 % for the field of "neuroscience and 
behavior" in comparison with other papers published in the same year. We first note that the citation 
figures for papers published in 2017 and 2018 do not show a significant difference between the average 
and those ranked in the top 10% (3 and 9 citations, respectively, in 2017.) Similar to our analysis of 
the data referenced above, we will not assume that a paper cited on 9 occasions in one year has made 
a contribution to the field which is of noticeably greater significance than one which has been cited 3 
times in the same period. More importantly, although these figures indicate that some of the articles 
co-authored by the Petitioner have drawn greater interest from other researchers than the average 
published paper in the field, he has not shown that this interest is sufficient to demonstrate that the 
research reported in these papers constitutes a contribution of major significance to the field. 
The Petitioner also focused on citations to his work in review articles. However, other than providing 
information regarding the authors of the review articles and the journals in which they were published, 
he does not explain the significance of the review articles or the citation of his work by those articles. 
Further, although the Petitioner asserts that these reviews comment on or highlight his work, in most 
cases his work is reported along with that of other research groups who published similar research 
findings. In his appeal brief: the Petitioner describes a similar conclusion in the Director's decision 
as representing an "exclusivity" requirement which is not found in the regulations, but this was not 
presented as a requirement by the Director, nor do we do so here. Rather, we are evaluating the extent 
to which the Petitioner's work is commented upon or highlighted as he asserts. 
· in Januar One example of a review article in the record was ublished in Nature Reviews Neurolo 
I I and is titled~--------------------------~ I t' This article cites to three of the Petitioner's articles in its opening section. For instance, in 
citing a paper co-authored by the Petitioner, it indicates that it was one of three papers which defined 
the term "early" as ~---------------------------~' In 
another section, the review paper cites another of the Petitioner's articles as one of three identifying 
the brain structures most commonly affected by radiation treatment. While these citations indicate 
that the authors of the review paper relied in part upon the Petitioner's work, they do not support the 
assertion that they highlight his work or provide commentary that sets it apart as particularly 
noteworthy or impactful. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he has coauthored more than 40 articles which have been 
published in scientific journals. 4 As such, we agree with the Director and find that he meets this 
criterion. 
4 The Director found a discrepancy between the number of aiticles the Petitioner claimed to have authored and the number 
as evidenced in the record. On review, we note that the record includes sufficient documentation of the Petitioner's articles, 
and withdraw this finding by the Director. 
7 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
While the Petitioner did not address this criterion on appeal, he did submit evidence in response to the 
Director's RFE. As the Director determined that the Petitioner otherwise met the initial evidence 
requirement, he did not provide an analysis of the Petitioner's qualification under this criterion in his 
decision. However, because we have withdrawn the Director's finding regarding published material 
about the Petitioner, we will now analyze the claims and evidence provided in his response to the RFE. 
As we noted when considering the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of 
others, he serves as an editor for the journals Innovare Journal of Health Science (IJHS) and Indo 
Global Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences (IGJPS). Regarding his role for IGJPS, the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that he was named as the journal's! I editor for the United States in I 12018. A letter from the journal's editor-in-chief states that in this role he "review(s) original 
papers in the subject of Pharmacy and Pharmacology submitted by other scientists for publication in 
this journal." In addition, the editor-in-chief indicates that asl I editor, the Petitioner provides 
guidelines to authors in submitting manuscripts, as well as guidelines "regarding acceptable practices 
for sharing experimental results and information." He also establishes policies on conflict of interest 
for authors, reviewers and editors. After review, we find that this evidence establishes that the 
Petitioner plays a leading role for IGJPS. 
However, the Petitioner must also establish that IGJPS has a distinguished reputation. The editor-in­
chief described the journal in his letter, stating that the journal had been in publication for more than 
seven years, and that according to Google Scholar it had an "h-index" of 19 and "il0 index" of 44. 
However, the letter does not explain the meaning of these values, or provide context to demonstrate 
that the journal has distinguished itself among other scientific publications. The Petitioner also 
includes information from the journal's website, but this material simply describes its focus in the 
areas of pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences. It does not establish that the journal has earned a 
distinguished reputation. 
Regarding IJMS, the Petitioner provided a copy of a page from the journal's website which lists him 
asl I The page indicates that the editorial board consists of an editor-in­
chiet: an associate editor, the two assistant editors, and twelve editors. A letter from the publisher of 
this journal states that the Petitioner is responsible to maintain "the smooth flow of manuscripts from 
the submission to publication teams to the editor." He verifies that articles comply with the journal's 
manual of style, and assists the editor-in-chief in finalizing author guidelines. He also assigns 
manuscripts to reviewers, and makes the decision regarding acceptance for publication. As with 
IGJPS, we find that the Petitioner plays a leading role for IJMS. 
As evidence of the reputation of IJMS, the Petitioner submitted pages from the publisher's website 
about the journal. This evidence indicates that it is a peer-reviewed, bimonthly open access journal 
that has been in publication since 2013. It also provides information about the publisher, and a list of 
journals that it publishes. However, it does not include information to show that IJMS has a 
distinguished reputation among scientific journals. 
8 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence showing that he agreed to serve on Os Council onl I 
~--------,;====.---~ j 1-This evidence indicates that he is one of several faculty 
members of thel I and that it is responsible to "advise the Chancellor and the Division on issues 
in the areas of teaching, student life and welfare, and intramural and intercollegiate athletics." It does 
not demonstrate that the Petitioner plays a leading or critical role for the I ~ or that the council 
enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, after review of this evidence, we find that it does not establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9016406 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner previously claimed to satisfy four out of ten initial evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i}-(x). On motion, the Petitioner asserts that she meets a fifth criterion, defined at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), pertaining to evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
A printout from an online retailer's website lists the Petitioner as the author of 
~--------------~' which apparently exists only as an e-b._o_o_k __ -T-h-is_b_o_o_k_d_o-es_n_o_t~ 
establish eligibility or overcome the dismissal of the appeal. The printout shows the book was published 
in September 2019, almost two years after the petition's December 2017 filing date. Therefore, it cannot 
establish that the Petitioner already met the eligibility requirements at the time of filing, as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Furthermore, the regulation requires authorship of (1) scholarly articles (2) in the field, (3) in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner has not shown thatl O I 
meets any of these requirements. First, the Petitioner has not shown that this book is a scholarly article. 
Second, she claims extraordinary ability as an actor; there is no indication that the book has any relation 
to the field of acting. Third, the Petitioner has not shown that the book constitutes professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. Rather, the book appears to be self-published; the retailer's listing 
does not identify a publisher. Its highest sales ranking is 'I I I t; the Petitioner has not shown that this ranking is consistent with "major media." 
The Petitioner's post-filing self-publication of an e-book unrelated to acting does not establish good cause 
for reopening the petition. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
Apart from the new claim discussed above, the bulk of the Petitioner's motion brief repeats, verbatim, the 
appellate brief, with two inserted passages contending that we erred in our appellate decision. The 
Petitioner, however, does not identify or rebut any specific errors in our decision. 
The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error 
or overlooked in our initial decision, or must show how a change in law materially affects our prior 
2 
decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006).1 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not 
a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. The moving party must specify 
the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial 
decision .... ") 
The Petitioner has not established that the appellate decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that 
decision. Therefore, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and must 
be dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen relies on evidence that did not exist at the time of filing, and which has no 
demonstrated relevance to the Petitioner's area of claimed extraordinary ability. The motion to 
reconsider merely repeats the earlier brief without identifying any specific error in the intervening 
appellate decision. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or 
reconsideration and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The combined motion 
to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for these reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board oflmmigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(b )(1 ), 
which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the 
prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements are fundamentally similar to those 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10768211 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a provider of financial and business data and news, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as 
an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Beneficiary 
met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification , the record did not establish that 
he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director imposed novel requirements in rendering his 
decision, and that the Beneficiary qualifies as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is currently employed by the Petitioner as a senior research scientist in its Artificial 
Intelligence Group, where he conducts research on natural la~rocessing (NLP) and machine 
learning (ML). He earned a Ph.D. in computer science froml___JUniversity in 2017, and states 
that he intends to continue working in this area in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others, 
his authorship of scholarly articles, and his receipt of a salary that is high in comparison to others in 
his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets two additional evidentiary 
criteria. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that the Beneficiary meets the 
three criteria referred to above. As the Beneficiary has therefore met the initial evidence requirement, 
we will not consider whether he also meets the additional claimed criteria, but will instead consider 
all of the evidence in the record in performing a final merits determination. 
1 The Petitioner also claims to have submitted comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), but does not explain 
why the criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) are not readily applicable to the Beneficiary's occupation. Further, as 
we agree with the Director's finding that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested 
classification, the Petitioner's claim of comparable evidence is moot and thus will not be considered. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The record indicates that the Beneficiary's work in AI has been concentrated in the sub-fields ofNLP 
and ML, and that he continues to focus his work in these areas with the Petitioner. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary has made three main contributions to these areas during the 
cour~e of his studies and in its employ. The first involves his participation in the development of an 
NLPl ] which took place durin his em loyment as a research intern. In a reference letter 
submitted with the initial filing, Chief Scientist atl I describes his 
collaboration with the Beneficiary to develop '~----~ learning architectures that could be 
applied to a wide range of complex NLP problems ... " and notes that this research resulted in.---a-=-===r I I that could be used for various different tasks in natural lan9u.::ca::=.::....i:..::...::....::.===..:..:........i.---___,, 
adds that this research was resented at two conferences, the 2015 I I and the 2016 ,..::...._....:..........----==============;-' 
. However, ~----' does not provide specific examples of the application of this 
"F=====;lb_y_o~thers to solve NLP problems or perform tasks. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the paper presented atl I in 2016, I ~ I I" "remains among the publication's top 
30 most cited articles." Although the evidence referenced by the Petitioner indicates that this paper 
was cited on 597 occasions2 by other researchers as of the date the petition was filed, and that it 
substantially exceeds! ~s "h5-median" score, it does not support the assertion that it is among I ts top 30 most cited articles.3 It is by far the most highly cited of the Beneficiary's published 
papers, and this figure by itself indicates that many researchers in the field of AI have used this paper 
in support of their own research in some way. But the record does not include evidence which 
demonstrates whether or how other researchers have applied or built upon the Beneficiary's work, or 
that the framework has been implemented by others in the field, and thus does not show the nature or 
degree of impact this work has had on the field of AI, or the level of recognition the Beneficiary has 
received because of it. 
In addition, the Petitioner also refers to evidence of the importance of the I I conference in the 
field of AI. This includes a list from the Google Scholar website showing that it ranks second in the 
field of AI in terms of "h5-index" and "h5-median," terms which reflect that a certain number of 
articles published by that medium have been cited the same number of times in the past five years. 4 
In addition,! I states in his letter thatl lis "one of the primary conferences of high impact 
in Machine Leaming and Artificial Intelligence research." However, the Petitioner does not explain 
how this ranking affects the impact or recognition of the Beneficiary's work beyond the factors 
discussed above. We will not assume that a paper published in a prestigious or highly-ranked journal 
or conference proceeding is inherently more impactfol or gains greater recognition than a paper 
published in a different medium. 
2 This paper had 909 citations as of September 1, 2020 per the Beneficiary's Google Scholar profile, 
https:/l I 
3 We also note that since the h5-median reflects citations to papers published in the period from 2015-19, it is not an 
accurate gauge of the impact of the Beneficiary's work compared to more recently published articles which have had a 
shorter period in which to be cited, nor does it take into account citations to papers published in this journal before 2015. 
4 The Petitioner also refers to evidence that this conference (and others at which the Beneficiary presented his work) has a 
"CO RE rank" of A*, but the record does not include evidence that explains either the meaning or significance of this rank. 
3 
The second contribution highlighted by the Petitioner is based upon the Beneficiary's work published 
at the I I conference in 2014, '.__ _____________________ ____. I I" As with the paper discussed above, the Petitioner focuses on the number of citations to 
this paper, 193 as of the time of filing, and points out that this is above the conference proceeding's 
h5-index (but below the h5-median figure.) While we acknowledge that this citation figure indicates 
that many other researchers in the field of AI have relied on the Beneficiary's work in some way, we 
note that this evidence does not provide sufficient qualitative or quantitative context to establish that 
the he is one of the small percentage at the top of this field. Although the h5-index fo!LJ indicates 
that the paper is one of the more highly-cited papers to be presented at the conference in the past five 
years, it does not provide information regarding papers published in the field overall at other 
conferences and in scientific journals, or papers which were previously published in the I I 
proceedings. In addition, it does not provide insight into how or to what extent the researchers who 
cited the Beneficiary's paper used this research in their own work. 
Reference letters discussing this work provide some farther insight into its impact on the field of AI. ~-------~ ot1 I University, who collaborated with the Beneficiary on this work, 
confirms that the Beneficiary conducted the bulk of the work towards this research under her guidance, 
and concludes that it "has had a far-reaching impact on the worldwide natural language community ... " 
But she does not provide details as to the nature of this impact, or provide specific examples of how it 
has been recognized by others in the AI field. 
Another letter was submitted by~-------~ofl !University, who indicates 
that he does not know the Beneficiary but is familiar with his work. He describes the Beneficiary's 
research "on I I interpretation for ~-----~ in natural language processing" as 
"revolutionary," and states that he developed a new method which works in conjunction with previous 
work but "overcame some of their drawbacks." I !indicates that this work "provides 
insight about different! I components that helps the industry design better architectures for 
new tasks," and is relevant to a company such as the Petitioner, but he does not provide details about 
whether this model has been implemented in the industry or otherwise recognized. 
The third contribution which the Petitioner notes on a eal relates to his work which was published at 
,.......... ......... ..__ _________________ ,___---=----.,...J conference in 2014, I I 
As with the previous examples, the Petitioner 
compares the number of citations to this paper with the publication's h5-index, noting that its 236 
citations triples that figure, and includes evidence showing that the conference proceedings are ranked 
second among publications in the field ofl I Again, we acknowledge that 
these figures indicate that the Beneficiary's work has had impact on the AI field, but note that they do 
not provide a complete picture as to the extent and nature of that impact. 
More information regarding this aspect of the Beneficiary's work is provided by~I -----~ 
I I of the University! I who writes in his reference letter that he first met the 
Beneficiary at this conference. He states that being selected to present at this conference "is a 
tremendous honor that separates [the Beneficiary] from others in his field," but he does not provide 
figures such as the rate of acceptance of submitted a ers or the total number of papers presented at 
the conference, to support this assertion. oes on to state that the Beneficiary's 
paper "is by far the best research on the task of........,. ___ ~--~extraction," and notes that "this 
4 
was the first application of~-------~to anyl I task." He farther indicates that 
this research "is of practical importance" since it removes the 1 I engineering" step and thus 
saves time and money. However, he does not explain the extent to which the Beneficiary's work has 
affected that of other AI researchers, been implemented by them, or been acclaimed in the industry in 
other ways. 
As we have noted in the above analysis, while some of the reference letters submitted provide detail 
regarding the technical aspects of the Beneficiary's work, none provide the same level of specificity 
when explaining its impact upon the field of AI. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility 
of a letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board 
of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because 
it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The 
Board also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative 
testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, 
detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter 
of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, several of the letter writers conclude that the 
Beneficiary's work is "relevant" to the AI field and industry, but do not provide farther details about 
how it has gone beyond relevance and gained sustained acclaim at the national or international level. 
The conclusions that several of the writers make regarding his elevated standing in the field are 
therefore not supported by their own statements, nor are they corroborated by documentary evidence. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence regarding the Beneficia['s work since joining its research 
team in 2017, as well as the role he has played for the company. I Head of AI 
Engineering for the Petitioner, writes that the Beneficiary has continued his research inl I 
I I for text analysis, and that models he has developed have improved the performance of 
software "by nearly 5% in precision and recall." He farther states that these models and software are 
used by several of the Petitioner's teams and products. In addition,! lnotes that the 
Beneficiary has co-instructed four courses in ML and NLP given to the Petitioner's engineers, which 
has led to the development of four machine learning products within the company. Although the 
Beneficiary has clearly contributed to the Petitioner's research efforts in the field of AI, and his work 
has improved the efficiency of the work of others employed by the Petitioner, the evidence does not 
establish that he has played a critical role for the company's overall organization. Although the 
systems and products improved through the Beneficiary's efforts are important to the Petitioner's core 
business, the evidence does not show that the incremental upgrades accomplished through the 
application of his work have been critical to the company's overall success. 
In addition, this reference letter does not establish that the Beneficiary's work during his employment 
with the Petitioner has received acclaim in the broader AI field. I I writes that the results 
,.=J.:;.u;:.....1.1..1.ll.ll.u...i.u:.ul....'1.L...llJJ;:;....<:.l..L..J....:z!:=-=-...,..=.,..,,,.....,.........,,..,...,...,...,.,.....,...,...,..,........,.,.....,,,,.,.....,...,~, part of the......., _______ .....,....... 
~------------- conference, "the leading venue for researchers around the world to 
publish,__ ________ related ideas." We acknowledge that the dissemination of this work 
makes it available to researchers in the AI field beyond those employed by the Petitioner, but the 
record does not include evidence which shows that it garnered national or international acclaim for the 
Beneficiary. 
5 
Regarding the Beneficiary's participation as a peer reviewer, the Petitioner argues on appeal that the 
Director employed novel legal standards in finding that this participation was routine and did not 
exceed that of other researchers, and that he ignored the evidence of the acclaim of those journals and 
conferences. As for the first point, we note that the Director did not make these findings when 
determining whether the Beneficiary met the plain language requirements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but when considering whether he has garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. This analysis necessarily 
involves a comparison of the Beneficiary's accomplishments against those of all other researchers in 
his field, and we conclude that the Director's findings are pertinent and well within the framework of 
the final merits determination per Kazarian. 
Turning to the Petitioner's second point about the Beneficiary's work as a peer reviewer, it notes that 
he conducted this work for some of the same highly-ranked conferences at which his work was 
published, includin~ I, D and I I The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary "has not 
simply participated in widespread peer review processes. He has conducted peer reviews for the 
largest, well-known and prestigious conferences and publications in his field of endeavor." While we 
acknowledge that scientific conferences and journals rely upon experts such as the Beneficiary to 
review papers which are submitted for presentation or publication, the Petitioner has not explained 
how the prestige of these conferences bestows acclaim on the many anonymous reviewers that are 
needed to provide recommendations to session chairs making the ultimate decision on which papers 
will be presented. 
The record also includes evidence of the Beneficiary's salary, as well as comparative data showing 
that it exceeds the national 90th percentile salary for the position of "Computer and Information 
Research Scientists." We agree that this evidence shows that his salary is high when compared to 
others in his field, and reflects the level of education and expertise he possesses. However, when 
considered together with the totality of the evidence as analyzed above, this evidence does not 
sufficiently demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the small percentage at the top if his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence shows that the Beneficiary is an accomplished researcher who has already made some 
degree of impact in the field of artificial intelligence. Although he has published several articles in 
the proceedings of scientific conferences, some of which have been cited by other researchers 
hundreds of times, the record does not contain evidence which establishes that this work has brought 
him acclaim at the national or international level. In addition, his publication record, participation in 
the peer review process, and salary, when considered together, do not show that he is among the small 
percentage of AI researchers at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
6 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10792696 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner then appealed the matter, 
asserting that he met a third criteria in addition to the two that the Director found he met. We dismissed 
the appeal, as well as two subsequent motions to reopen, finding that the evidence was not sufficient 
to show that he met this third criterion. The Petitioner now files a third motion to reopen, submitting 
additional evidence relating to that third criterion, and for the fust time claims to meet a fourth 
criterion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner established that he met two of the ten criteria listed under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner's win at the 2015 I I Barista Championship satisfied the criterion relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, and that his participation as a judge at other competitions satisfied the criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We also agreed that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient 
evidence to show that he met the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) relating to published 
material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Following our dismissal of his appeal, the Petitioner submitted two motions to reopen, adding 
additional evidence to the record regarding media which we determined had published material about 
him and his work. This evidence included data on visits to the websites which published the material 
about him, lists of coffee-related internet sites compiled by on blogs, and general information about a 
local television station which posted an article about him attending the World Barista Championships. 
In our previous motion decisions, we determined that this evidence did not establish that any of the 
media were one of the qualifying types per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
With this third motion, the Petitioner submits additional information about only one of those mediums, 
the website sprudge.com. This evidence, much like the previously submitted evidence from 
feedspot.com, provides lists of coffee related blogs, all of which list sprudge.com. One of these, the 
coffeeconcierge.net, states that "these are just my personal favorite coffee blogs ( and vlogs) listed in 
no particular order," and lists sprudge.com as one of 15, calling it" quite possibly the biggest online 
coffee publication in the world." Another, atlascoffeeclub.com, lists 14 of "some of the best coffee 
blogs we know (presented in no particular order)" and states that "Sprudge is widely recognized as 
one the best coffee blogs around." A third such list was published on coffeemakered.com, titled "Most 
Influential Coffee Bloggers of 2018." 
Although this evidence shows that Sprudge is popular with its fellow coffee blogs, this evidence does 
not establish that it qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. As we 
stated in our previous decision, evidence should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show who is the intended audience of the publication. 1 
Judging by the descriptions provided in the blog ranking articles, Sprudge appears to cater to coffee 
enthusiasts, including guides to coffee shops in several cities, and thus cannot be considered a 
professional publication. Further, the ranking articles do not provide circulation or comparable figures 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
for Sprudge and the other listed biogs, but instead are compiled based upon the writers' opinions. 
Therefore, the new facts included with this motion are not sufficient to show that Sprudge is a 
professional, major trade or other major medium, and do not establish that the Petitioner meets the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner also submits new evidence in support of a claim to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) relating to a high salary compared to others in his field. Included in this 
evidence is a business license dated January 29, 2011, showing that the Petitioner was granted a license 
for a business called I linc=J The new evidence also includes a trademark registration for 
the business dated July 14, 2014, and a "Tax Clearance Certificate" from the Tax Department of I !dated February 19, 2020. The certificate states that the Petitioner (and/or his 
business) had a total net income of 18,453,652,700Oin the years 2009-14, and that his business 
was not active after 2015. The Petitioner asserts that this figure "can be noted as the highest income 
in compare with 90% of all existance [sic] cafes in that period of time in0which is an evidence to 
this fact." He goes on to provide estimates of the average income of cafe owners, but these figures, 
or those he uses to arrive at the 90% figure, are not supported by evidence in the record. As the record 
lacks evidence to establish that the Petitioner earned a high salary when compared to that of other 
baristas or cafe owners, he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Per the above analysis, our review of the new evidence submitted with the Petitioner's motion to 
reopen does not establish that he meets either of the individual criteria claimed, or that he is otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10751846 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a karate athlete and trainer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
ten evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that he 
met three criterion in addition to the one criterion that the Director found he met. However, we 
disagreed with the Director and reversed his finding regarding that criterion, finding that it had not 
been met by the Petitioner. We also agreed that the Petitioner did not meet another criterion he had 
claimed, and reserved two additional criteria. The Petitioner now submits a motion to reopen 
supported by additional evidence regarding three of the evidentiary criteria. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner initially claimed five of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) in his 
petition: 
• (i) -lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor 
• (ii) -membership in associations in the field requiring outstanding achievement of members 
• (iii) -published material about the Petitioner and his work in professional, major trade or other 
major media 
• (iv) -participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field, and 
• (viii) -a leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only the awards criterion based upon newspaper clippings. 
These articles concern tournaments in which the members of a karate team from the University of 
'-----------~ including the Petitioner, are said to have received awards. However, on 
appeal we reversed this finding, noting that the record lacked direct evidence of the Petitioner's receipt 
of an award, and that the name of the tournaments in these articles were inconsistent with that claimed 
by the Petitioner. 1 We also agreed with the Director that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion 
relating to published material about him, and reserved the fourth and eight criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 2 On motion, the Petitioner submits new evidence relating to the first, fourth 
and eight criteria, which we will analyze below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence from the website of the '------====::::!..:::K.:::a::.:r~a:.:..:;te 
Association! I showing that the.__ __________ prom~.......,CL.lU----1---_J 
is one of several events scheduled for 2020. Also submitted is a letter from , dated 
February 19, 2020, who identifies himself as the .__ _________ __.promotor and states that 
1 The Petitioner's index, and the translation of at least one of the articles, indicated that the tournament was the Pan 
American Games, a tournament amongst North and South American countries that includes the sport of karate but has 
never been held in 2 Other titles referred to in the articles included "Panamerican Karate Games," "Panamerican 
Champions of Karate. I" and "Panamerican Championship of Free Karate." The Petitioner continued 
to add to these discrepancies on appeal, referring to the tournament both as the "Panamerican Games" and the 
"International Panamerican Championship of Karate." 
2 As the Petitioner did not contest the Director's finding that he did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). we 
found that claim to have been abandoned. 
2 
the Petitioner won first place in the "Panamerican National" in the~I ---~I weight category in the 
years 1994, 1995 and 1996. 
However, we note that I statement contradicts an article published in Meridiano on 
December 1, 1996, quoting another participant as stating that the Petitioner received third in~I --~ 
in the "Panamerica Games of Karate" which took place in the preceding month. The Petitioner must 
resolve this discrepancy in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth 
lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). While other articles in the record which 
were previously submitted indicate that the Petitioner achieved first place, the unknown source and 
date of these articles, combined with the articles' inconsistent naming of the tournaments in which the 
Petitioner is claimed to have won these awards, significantly reduces their value in verifying~ I I statement or overcoming this inconsistency. Accordingly, this new evidence does not establish 
that the Petitioner received the awards as stated byl • I 
In addition, we found in our previous decision that even if the Petitioner were to establish his receipt 
of the claimed awards, the evidence did not establish that they are nationally or internationally 
recognized. On motion, the Petitioner submits additional information about the I I 
I I tournament from the website highlighting a section 
titled "Ratings." This section lists several associations, with the entries fo~,__ __ __, and the World 
Kenpo Federation indicating "5A World Tour" and "5A Sanctioned" respectively, but the mealing I 
and significance of this information is not explained. Further, the I I website lists the I ~ as one of 33 tournaments scheduled to have been held during 2020, and does 
not differentiate between them in terms of the level of competition or recognition. This evidence does 
not establish that the .__ _________ ____. is recognized by I I at the national or 
international level, or that it is recognized in the broader field of martial arts. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the new evidence does not establish the Petitioner's receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not established his participation as a judge of the work of 
others, finding that the letters froml lwere insufficient. With his appeal, the Petitioner 
resubmitted a letter from! I that had been submitted in response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE). On motion, he submits new evidence consisting of two certificates, both including 
his name and "Official's Certificate." The first indicates that it was given during the "U.S. Open ISKA 
World Martial Arts Championships" inl !Florida in02008, while the second states only 
"U.S. Open" and provides no date or location. This evidence sufficiently establishes the Petitioner's 
participation as an official at a karate tournament in02008. 
The previously mentioned new letter from I I also includes evidence relating to this criterion, 
stating that "I have had the pleasure to work with him invitin him as a judge to the Pan American 
Tournament of martial arts, that takes place in the cit of around fall time for the last 23 years." 
In addition, the Petitioner also includes the 2020...__ _ ____.Rulebook with his motion, which explains 
3 
that judges at a karate competition award points, as well as penalties, to the competitors. This evidence 
establishes that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted certificates and reference letters which verify that 
he actively participated as a karate athlete forc=]from 1994 to 2001, and continued to participate 
with the school's karate program in later years. The Director found that this evidence did not establish 
that he played a leading or critical role fore=] or that the school had a distinguished reputation. The 
Petitioner resubmitted the same three reference letters on appeal, as well as a webpage from the 
website topuniversities.com which ranks! I inl I As noted above, we reserved 
this criterion on our decision, as we had already determined that the Petitioner could not meet the 
initial evidence requirements for the requested classification. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits the same certificates and reference letters showing his participation 
as an athlete forD as well as new evidence that he acted as an "Aerobic Instructor" forc=]for 
the Inter-School Sports Games 2003 Cup. However, the Petitioner does not yolail or provide 
evidence regarding the duties of this role, or how this apparently temporary role for was leading 
or critical for the school overall. He also does not introduce new facts regarding his earlier role as an 
athlete foi-17 s karate team.~as therefore not established that he played a leading or critical 
role fo~erall or for the L_Jkarate team. 
The Petitioner also submits new information about I I and its history from Wikipedia, and 
information about the Free (or Freestyle) Karate Club atc=]which appears to be from the school's 
website. Regarding Wikipedia, there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this 
open, user-edited Internet site. Therefore, information from Wikipedia will be accorded no evidentiary 
weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008).3 And the 
information about the Free Karate Club simply provides information about the sport and the club's 
history, without adding information about the club's reputation in the field of karate or the broader 
field of martial arts. Accrrdingt, even if the Petitioner had successfully shown that he played a 
leading or critical role for or its freestyle karate club, he has not established that either entity 
enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
In addition, the Petitioner submits additional evidence regarding his role with thel I Karate 
Organization. One certificate, dated November 28, 2015, states that it "Grants this recognition to the 
3 See also the online content from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia: General disclaimer, accessed on*, and copy 
incorporated into the record of proceeding is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WTKTPEDTA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia. that is. a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information ... 
. Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
4 
Teacher [Petitioner] for his long career as an athlete, perseverance and dedication in the formation of 
martial artists of new generations." A second certificate from the organization, dated March 27, 2010, 
indicates that it recognizes the Petitioner "For his valuable contribution and commitment to all the 
activities of this organization ... " However, the record does not include evidence which provides 
further information about what exactly the Petitioner's role for this organization was or is, such as 
whether he was formally employed as a karate instructor or held a leadership position. In addition, 
the record lacks evidence to show that the I I Karate Organization has earned a distinguished 
reputation. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we find that the new evidence provided on motion does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Upon review of the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner with his motion to reopen, we find that 
he has shown that he meets the criterion relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
However, he has not submitted new evidence to overcome our previous finding regarding published 
material about him. In addition, we find that the new evidence about his receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized awards and his leading or critical role for associations is insufficient to 
demonstrate that he meets those criteria. Accordingly, he has not established that he meets the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification and that he qualifies as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4899488 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a painter of miniature art, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a painter, specializing in "traditionall I miniature painting." The Petitioner states: 
"For more than a decade, I have worked in my workshop ... atl I old city market." He entered 
the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor in December 2016, and filed the immigrant petition 
in October 2017. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to prizes and to 
artistic display. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed evidentiary 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied 
only one criterion, relating to artistic display. We will discuss the other five claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence satisfies this criterion. We disagree. 
2 
Translated photoco rize certificates indicate that the Petitioner won an award for "Traditional 
Hand Craft" at the Re ublican Youth Com etition in I ] 2011, and two 
awards at the.__ ____________________ ____. inl._ ___ _.!a "Silver Award" 
in 2013 and "Third Prize" in 2015. 
The only background information the Petitioner submitted regarding the I I competition 
is a United Nations report which cited the competition as one of several "undertaking[ s] to condemn racial 
discrimination." The report also indicated that the competition is "for talented youth aged 15-25 ," thereby 
excluding the most experienced artists from participation; the report indicates that the competition prizes 
consist, at least in part, of academic scholarships. 
The Petitioner also submitted two promotional articles about the expos1t10ns inl This 
background information does not mention any prizes or establish that those prizes are nationally or 
internationally recognized. International participation in an event is not the same as international 
recognition of awards from that event. 
The submitted materials do not show that the awarding of the prizes attracts any significant notice, either 
among the public or among others working in the field. The Petitioner has not established the national or 
international recognition of the prizes and awards discussed above. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
A ied membershi card indicates that the Petitioner holds the osition of "Master" with 
'---------------------------.-~---------' City Administration." A 
letter attributed to the head of '---------~ Regional Administration reads, in part: 
'I !Association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field [sic] of Folk Art or Craftsmanship," and that the 
Petitioner's "membership was based on his outstanding achievements in the field of traditional I I 
miniature art painting." 
A letter attributed to the chief executive officer CEO of reads, in part: "In accordance with 
the article 5.4 of the Charter of~---------~' admission to the Association is granted based 
on the recommendation of Art Experts Council composed solely of nationally or internationally 
recognized experts." The letter also indicates that two "internationally recognized expert[s]" 
recommended the Petitioner for membership. The Petitioner submits letters attributed to those two named 
artists. The letters are nearly identical, both stating that the artists "recommended [ the Petitioner's] 
admission tol I based on his outstanding achievements in the field of traditional 
I I miniature art," and that those achievements "fully comply with the requirements of ... article 5.4 
of the Charter." 
3 
The submitted letters do not provide any information about the Petitioner's achievements or explain 
why they are outstanding. It cannot suffice simply to assert that membership inl !requires 
outstanding achievements. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the Petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Assocs., Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). The letters refer to article 5.4 ofl l's Charter, but the Petitioner does not submit a 
copy of the Charter itself Third-party assertions as to what the Charter says cannot carry the same weight. 
Furthermore, the similarities in the letters suggest that the language in the letters is not the authors' own. 
Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an 
immigration judge's adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings based in part on the 
similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 
2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits 
strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
A second letter attributed to thel ts CEO describes organization's purpose and activities, 
but does not discuss how it selects its members. This second letter indicates that I I has 
15,000 members, a size that does not readily suggest highly selective membership requirements. 
Also, we note that the Petitioner's identification card was issued not by the national organization, but 
by a regional authority inl !consistent with the conclusion that membership is determined at 
the regional level, rather than the national or international level. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not shown that his involvement with I !constitutes membership in an association that requires require outstanding achievements 
of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits translated copies of articles attributed to the magazine JannatMakon (2011 ), and 
the newspapers Buxoro Oqshomi (2015) and Buxoroi Sharif (2017). The Petitioner asserts that each of 
these publications constitutes major media with national circulation i~ I 
The JannatMakon piece consists of two paragraphs written by, rather than about, the Petitioner. He 
mentions his teacher, but most of what he wrote is about the traditional art form of miniature painting. 
Therefore, this article is not published material about the Petitioner. 
Letters attributed to the "main editors" of the two newspapers attest to the circulation of the newspapers, 
but the Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to corroborate those 
circulation figures. Beyond this valid observation, however, the figures themselves do not appear to be 
consistent with major media. The letters indicate that Buxoroi Sharif prints "around ... 500" copies per 
4 
week, while Buxoro Oqshomi prints "around 1150." Both papers have websites, for which the Petitioner 
did not provide readership statistics. 
The Petitioner also submitted printouts of screen captures from Y ouTube videos, most of them on his 
own channel. 1 The Petitioner did not submit transcripts to establish the content of the videos. While 
websites such as Y ouTube have the potential to reach a large audience, the Petitioner does not show that 
his channel has done so. View counts on the printouts show that his most-viewed video had accumulated 
66 views since September 2016. The other videos had between 22 and 40 views each. 
An interview with the Petitioner appeared on the Y ouTube channel of.__ _______ .....,..... A printed 
screen capture of that page showed 31 views as of August 28, 2018.2 This view count does not indicate 
that the Petitioner and his work have attracted significant attention, and the Petitioner has not shown that 
the channel constitutes major media. In any event, this video was not published until July 28, 2018, after 
the Director had issued a request for evidence; therefore, this video cannot establish eligibility as of the 
petition's October 2017 filing date, as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the submitted materials meet the regulatory 
requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director "provided no basis for the rejection of 
credible, clear and convincing evidence," but the Petitioner does not identify that evidence or show how 
it was as definitive as the Petitioner claims on appeal. The burden of proof resides with the Petitioner to 
establish eligibility, not with the Director to rebut the Petitioner's evidence and unsubstantiated claims. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this regulation, a petitioner must not only establish original contributions, but also that 
they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner states that he "made an original contribution of major significance to the field of traditional I !miniature painting by virtue of reviving ancient style and using narratives from classical Oriental 
literature," and by painting "classical subjects" such as "the works of famous I I folk poets and 
writers." Letters from various individuals also refer to these themes of revival of an ancient folk art form, 
and inspiration from literary sources. 
An "ancient style" is, by definition, not original. Reviving a classical technique using classical themes 
does not readily suggest originality. One of the letters contains two contradictory assertions in the same 
1 A search ofhttps://www.youtube.com on October 1, 2020, indicated that the Petitioner's channel no longer exists, and 
the videos on that channel are no longer available. 
2 The view count of this video (at https://www.youtube.com .__ ________ ~as of October 1, 2020. 
5 
sentence, indicating that the Petitioner has "his own unique style" but revived the "style of [a] great old 
master." 
Also, the submitted letters do not include an explanation as to how the Petitioner's choice of themes 
differs from that of other painters of miniatures. Another painter described in the record draws inspiration 
from "oral traditions of Central Asia," while the work of a third "shows scenes from daily life in ... 
ancient times." These themes do not appear to differ significantly from the "classical subjects" that the 
Petitioner favors. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted several letters that do not identify any 
specific contributions, and are worded, at times, in the manner of employee recommendation letters, 
although they purport to describe his achievements as a student. A letter attributed to the CEO of Youth 
Unity ofl I indicates that the Petitioner "served as an engine of motivation, inspiring his co­
workers to reach new levels in their work," and "demonstrated good teamwork skills in group 
assignments." 
An artist identified as the Petitioner's "tutor in painting miniature" at the Academy of Arts~I ----~ 
asserts: "During his time here, we saw sales of miniature [sic] increased threefold." The record does not 
otherwise indicate that the Academy sells paintings. The remainder of the letter consists of general praise 
for the Petitioner, without identifying any specific contributions or explanation of their significance. 
Another letter, also on Academy letterhead, is attributed to an individual who states his title as "Chairman 
of the Association," but does not specify the name of the association. The "Chairman's" letter contains 
several references that have no apparent relevance to art students, such references to clients and 
customers, and the assertion that the Petitioner "is clearly able to transmit his passion and talent for 
research to young scientists." 
In denying the petition, the Director stated: "While it is clear that there is value in 'reviving' or 
'preserving' an existing art form it is not sufficient to demonstrate an original contribution." The Director 
also determined that the Petitioner had not shown that his work has had an impact on that of other artists. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his "mastery of traditional! I miniature art was recognized as a 
contribution of major significance to the field by leading experts in this field," and that the Director 
arbitrarily refused to consider "unchallenged expert testimony." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
regulatory language: 
requires evidence of the alien's original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The regulation does not require contributions of major significance to the field. This is a 
subtle yet significant difference as the regulation requires an important contribution 
related to the field, rather than a contribution that dramatically impacts the field. 
The Petitioner's interpretation of the regulations is not controlling. Furthermore, several of the letters 
upon which the Petitioner relies do refer to "contributions of major significance to the field." It remains 
that skill in an existing, traditional technique is not inherently original. 
G 
The Petitioner's claim that these letters represent "unchallenged expert testimony" does not account for 
anomalies such as shared language and unexplained references to "customers" and "young scientists." In 
evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its 
quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 376 (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 80 
(Comm'r 1989)). The anomalies in the quoted letters raise serious questions about the origin of those 
letters, which diminish their evidentiary weight. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that he made original contributions of 
major significance. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner did not initiall claim to have satisfied this criterion, but he later submitted a 50-page 
printout of which identifies the Petitioner as its sole author and indicates 
that ..._ __ _. Publishing house" (the last word is lowercase in the original) published the book in 2016, 
with an update in 2018. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter formatted as a "review" of a book by the Petitioner called.I._ __ __, 
, said to have been published in 2016. The record does not .__ ________________ __, 
contain the book itself or first-hand evidence of its publication or existence. 
The regulatory language refers specifically to "articles." Nevertheless, on appeal, the Petitioner states: 
"It is absurd and unreasonable for the USCIS [U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services] to claim that 
only articles may be relied upon to satisfy this criterion, while books and treatises may not." The Director, 
however, did not raise any such objection, and in fact the Director consistently referred to the written 
material as an "article." 
The Director's objection was that the article was not "written in a scholarly manner." The Petitioner 
argues, on appeal, that "[t]he book here was clearly ... of [a] learned and scholarly nature." A USCIS 
policy memorandum states: 
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the 
field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, 
it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, 
videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship"). 
Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. 3 
3 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
7 
,__ _________ ___, generally has the traits of writing for a popular rather than scholarly 
audience. Furthermore, scholarly articles are subject to peer review and editorial scrutiny, which help to 
ensure the quality, accuracy, and relevance of the articles. The Petitioner has not shown that his book 
was held to comparably rigorous standards. 
Also, the Petitioner has not established that his books constitute professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, as the regulations require. Publication, by itself: does not satisfy the regulatory 
requirements. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Much of the 
Petitioner's evidence indicates his work has attracted only peripheral attention. Letters referring to 
the Petitioner as a major figure in his field raise concerns, for reasons already explained. The Petitioner 
has not shown established a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10857082 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability.1 This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did the foreign national demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
In our decision on the Petitioner's appeal, we came to the same conclusion as the Director. The 
Petitioner now submits a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, together with new evidence, and 
asserts that he meets two additional criteria as well as those we decided in his favor in our appellate 
decision. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 2 
Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 3 
A motion to reopen is based on new facts that are supported by documentary evidence, and a motion 
to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), and the requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). If warranted, we may grant requests that satisfy these requirements, then 
make a new eligibility determination. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Within the Director's decision, he concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements of the 
published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), but that he had not met the contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) or the leading or critical role requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Ultimately, the Director denied the petition. We came to the same conclusion in 
our appellate decision and further determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the significance 
of his work was indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it was 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 4 Moreover, 
we decided that the record did not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner had garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he was one of the small percentage who had risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 5 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses two criteria: ( 1) that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
entities that have a distinguished reputation, and (2) that he has contributed original contributions of 
major significance in the field of acting. 
A Procedural Shortcomings 
First-and as part of the basic requirements to file any motion before U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS)-the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii) requires that a motion must be 
accompanied by a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is 
the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the 
proceeding. We note that the Petitioner did not submit a statement relating to this mandate. Pertaining 
to this shortcoming, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that a motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. As the Petitioner did not provide the required statement, the 
motions must be dismissed based solely on this essential regulatory requirement. 
Additionally, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or policy, and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
3 See Kazarian v. USC1S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
4 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19. 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
5 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
In his motion brief: the Petitioner presents a summary of the case history and our determinations when 
we dismissed his appeal. Neither the motion brief nor other documentation in support of the motion, 
identifies any errors in our decision based on the record at the time. As this filing does not satisfy the 
requirements for a motion to reconsider the matter, we will dismiss this motion. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 6 According to 
the Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion), any new 
facts and documentary evidence must demonstrate eligibility for the required immigration benefit at 
the time the application or petition was filed. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define 
what constitutes a "new" fact. We interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issues 
raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the 
original petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence 
does not constitute "new facts." 
1. Leading or Critical Role Criterion 
The Petitioner claims he performed in a leading or critical role for three rriries: 11~1 I 
Coaching, providing services as a private acting coach and mentor; (2) an organization 
founded to assist South African performing artists inl I and (3) Worldwide. 
a . ._l ____ _.!Coaching 
~----~~he owner of this coaching organization, indicated within his initial letter that the 
Petitioner began as one of his students. As the foreign national's instructor, he noted unique gestures 
the Petitioner would perform that I I incorporated into his own auditions for new acting 
positions, as well as into his teaching curriculum. I I attributes this knowledge to the 
Petitioner and he stated that this new technique resulted in more of his clients having success in their 
auditioning process. 
In a subsequent letter, I I indicated that the Petitioner's ability encouraged him to bring him 
on board to assist in coaching his clients. He also noted that the Petitioner played a vital role in 
choosing the right material and providing feedback for the students. Within I Is letter 
submitted with the motions, he claims that the Petitioner holds a key position in his organization and 
the action vocabulary technique has become an essential part of the business. 7 I I farther 
states that the technique has resulted in many breakthroughs for himself: for many of his successful 
students, and for other actors that the Petitioner has trained outside o~._ ____ ___.t s business 
operations. 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that I I offered claims of how the Petitioner 
contributed to the methods he utilized on his clients, but the record did not establish the critical 
6 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). I I describes the action vocabulary technique as a method of various body movements in which the actor 
displays a physical reaction associated with the text in the script rather than the traditional method of reacting blindly to 
the text from a purely mental state. 
3 
capacity the foreign national played in the success of the business. Within his motions, the Petitioner 
offers a new letter froml ~ that discusses the "action vocabulary technique" he performed 
for the coaching studio. 
Reviewing all three letters froml lin the record, we observe inconsistent accounts relating 
to the Petitioner's involvement in developing what is now referred to as the action vocabulary 
technique. Inl ~s first letter, he did not mention the "action vocabulary technique" and 
instead described how the Petitioner "brought out some very unique approaches" and that his 
"attention to detail and international experience plard a valuable part in my audition and character 
process" for an acting role. Within I s second letter, he stated that "[ w ]hen I began 
teaching [the Petitioner], I introduced this method to him and as a result he responded very well to it 
in a very short period of time." 
Now in s third letter, he presents differing accounts of the method's origins. D 
~--~ 1mtia y states that"[ w ]e created a unique and highly effective technique," and indicates that 
this method was an "incredible insight that [the Petitioner] and I discovered." He goes on to state that 
without the Petitioner, "I would not have developed the effective and popular Action Vocabulary 
Technique." I ts differing accounts do not establish what the Petitioner's level of 
involvement was in developing the action vocabulary technique. The Petitioner must resolve this 
inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 8 He 
has not met his burden to demonstrate that he has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization's or the establishment's activities. 9 
Further, the record does not corroborate I ~ assertions on the importance of the action 
vocabulary technique for h~ ormmiwtio,. Although he describes it as "popular," we observe that 
none of the quotes listed on I._ _____ __,]' s website discuss the action vocabulary technique. Outside 
ofl ts letters, the record contains no references to the technique that would indicate its 
importance to the organization. Therefore, I ts unsupported assertions fall short of 
demonstrating the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. Such statements made without supporting 
documentation are of limited probative value and are insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's burden of 
proof 10 
Finally, in reference tol Is statement relating to the foreign national training actors outside 
of I I Coaching, the Petitioner has not explained how that activity sufficiently relates to 
this criterion's requirements demonstrating that he has performed in a leading or critical role forc=J I I coaching. Additionally,! I does not offer specific examples, and the Petitioner's 
motion brief does not describe corroborating evidence identified under the leading or critical role 
criterion, relating to the "many ... successful students" that the foreign national has trained on this 
organization's behalf The record lacks evidence supporting I l's claims. Such statements 
made without supporting documentation are of limited probative value and are insufficient to satisfy the 
8 Matter of Ho, 19 T&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
9 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy 
Memo), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
10 See Matter of Sofjici, 22 l&N Dec. 158, 165 (Comm'r 1998). 
4 
Petitioner's burden of proof. 11 The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he performed in a leading or 
critical role for the I I Coaching organization. 
Turning to the issue of whether the I I Coaching organization enjoys a distinguished 
reputation, we determined in the appeal decision that I l's statements and screenshots from 
his website were inadequate to demonstrate this requirement. Within the motions, the Petitioner 
claims that top actors have been quoted regarding the importance of the organization, which are also 
posted on I Is website The Petitioner posits that if these quotes were not accurate, those 
actors would have sued I land had him remove the content. Reviewing the actors' 
comments on the website appears to reflect more uponl I himself than on him as an acting 
instructor, and notably, these actors make no mention of the organization itself. 
Finally, the Petitioner's motion brief does not specifically describe how any other evidence establishes 
this organization enjoys a distinguished reputation. As a result, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that he has satisfied the requirements for the leading or critical role criterion relying onl I 
Coaching. 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through 
the role's matching duties. A critical role should be discemable from its impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. An individual's performance in this position should establish whether 
it was critical for the organization or the establishment as a whole. The evidence relating to this 
organization is comprised of a printout from their website's "About Us" page and three letters from I lthe CEO and founder o~ I This organization's mission is to provide fellow South 
African artists a safe haven to further pursue their entertainment careers when they arrive i~ I 
In his first letter, I I indicated that he hired a small group of experienced South African artists to 
aid newly arriving actors from that country acclimatize to the acting atmosphere in the United States.□ I lindicated that the Petitioner provided vital information to the new personnel including "how to 
immigrate, what to expect in the acting commruities in tr United States, and what is required in order 
to be successful in I O I as an artist." ~----~-stated the result was an elevation ofi I 
within the community, which was evidenced "when we attended the private screening of the major motion 
picture 'Walk to Freedom -Starring Edris Elba' [sic] which took place at the prestigious 'Directors Guild 
of America' in Hollywood." He further noted that the Petitioner was one of this organization's youngest 
founding members and that he is dmember lo~ !committee. Within his second letter,I I 
reported that the Petitioner assiste through teaching their acting students new techniques, which 
resulted in their foreign pupils quickly and effectively adapting to the American film and television 
market. 
In our a]pellate decision, we decided that I bd not clearly identify what the Petitioner's role for I encompassed nor did he sufficiently explain how the foreign national had contributed to the 
overall success of the organization's activities. Within the Petitioner's motion brief: he contends that his 
unique method has helped the organization's new actors to expand their craft by integrating new cultures 
11 See id. 
5 
and backgrounds into their characterization techniquesJ !claims the success of the Petitioner's 
acting curriculum has expanded Ito hundreds of members. 
Correspondence from those with "personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful to USCIS officers in making this determination as long as the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the alien's role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical."12 However, I l's letters do not 
sufficiently describe the Petitioner's role in such a way. While making broad claims about his impact, 
the letters lack details about the Petitioner's work and its effect on the organization. I ldoes 
not provide relevant details, such as when or how often the Petitioner taught, how many students he 
instructed, or how these classes were more significant than the organizations other activities. The 
Petitioner has not supplemented the record with other evidence demonstrating the significance of his 
role. 
Next, we address the claim that the Petitioner's work elevated! lin the acting community through 
their invitation to attend the private screening of a major motion picture. Although I I 
attributed the foreign national's efforts to the organization's invitation to a private screening, he did 
not explain the link between this alien's actions and such an overture.13 Simply claiming that the 
Petitioner trainedl I students does not sufficiently elucidate such a result, and the Petitioner 
should offer more than simple assertions relating to this cause-and-effect relationship. 14 However, the 
Petitioner did not offer probative material demonstratinJ lwas invited to attend a private screening 
of this movie, nor does the record depict a discemable connection between! land this movie other 
than both share South African roots. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's membership on I I committee,! I did not describe the 
duties the Petitioner performed in that role that might illustrate his functions were leading or critical. 
Finally, the Petitioner did not support his claim that expanded because of his work. The 
record does not establish how many members had rior to his assistance, nor does it contain 
evidence to corroborate I I's assertions that.__ __ __....xpanded "to hundreds of members" after 
the Petitioner joined. Further, even if such an expansion took place, the Petitioner does not establish that 
it was primarily attributable to his "acting curriculum." In summary, the record does not demonstrate 
how the Petitioner's performance forl I was sufficiently leading or critical. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that he performed in a qualifying role for I I_ 
Within our appellate decision we farther stated, "the record does not contain any independent evidence 
regardin~ lor its reputation that would support a finding that it enjoys a distinguish el reputati[ n." 
Even if the Petitioner had demonstrated that he performed in a leading or critical role for his 
motion does not address the organization's reputation. As a result, the Petitioner has not established that 
this organization would satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
12 Policy Memo at 10. 
13 We were unable to identity a movie by the name "Walk to Freedom," starring Idris Elba. We presume! I most 
likely meant the movie Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom. 
14 See Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 371-72 (discussing how assertions that are not supported by probative material will not 
meet a filing party's burden of proof). 
6 
c. ~I ---~!Worldwide 
For the final entity the Petitioner claims on motion, he relies on a self-defense training organizatio--11U_ Borldwide. Priorto the motioln1, the on]yl eldence the Petitioner olkred was letters frornc::::J 
a senior lead instructor for the Worldwide facility inl !California, and 
two accompanying blog posts about . Within our decision on the appeal, we noted the lack 
of material relating to the particular studio wher~ I works inl ~ rather than to the 
larger corporate structure by the same name. 
On motion, the Petitioner discusses our appellate decision, I I's tenure at the company, and 
how the foreign national has benefitted stunt choreography in major motion pictures, and the personnel 
acting in those movies. We discussed thee topics in our decision on the appeal and they are not new 
facts relating to the Petitioner's role for !worldwide, nor did the Petitioner present new 
facts about the distinguished nature of the organization. Therefore, he has not met the requirements 
for a motion to reopen for this organization or establishment. 
2. Contributions of Major Significance 
Within our appellate decision, we discussed several letters in support of the Petitioner's acting skills and 
talents, noting an absence of his significant impact within the overall field beyond acting students. On 
motion the Petitioner offers additional letters, some from the same individuals we discussed in the appeal 
dismissal, that explain how he has benefitted their own careers and unspecified others in the industry. 
Because the Petitioner must satisfy at least three criteria to move to a final merits determination, and he 
is unable to achieve a favorable decision in at least three criteria based on our above analysis, it is 
unnecessary that we analyze his eligibility under the last claimed regulatory provision; his original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).15• 16 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should either reopen the proceedings or reconsider our 
adverse appellate decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
15 See Matter of L-A-C-. 26 T&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
16 Additionally. we reiterate the apparent conflict inl l's letters as it relates to the origin of the action vocabulary 
technique. That technique was the Petitioner's only claim to eligibility under the contiibutions of major significance 
criterion. While we do not reach a conclusion on the merits of the Petitioner's claim, the inconsistencies in the record 
relating to the origin of the action vocabulary technique should be addressed in any future filing. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10574337 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in several events at various levels, including international competitions held 
by the International MMA Federation (IMMAF) and various regional and national organizations under 
the IMMAF's umbrella. A printout from IMMAF's website in the record shows that IMMAF 
competitions are for amateur fighters. More recently, the Petitioner has competed professionally. At the 
time he filed the petition in July 2018, he was in B-2 nonimmigrant status, having entered the United 
States in February 2018. A September 2018 printout from an MMA website indicated that the Petitioner's 
professional record consisted of three wins and one loss, some of which occurred after the filing date. 1 
A. One-Time Achievement 
Ihe Petitioner cl:airus three one-time achievements both described in a letter from thel I ~ a bronze medal I ' I at the 2017 
MMA World Championship and gold medals at two I I championships in 2016 and 2017. He 
acknowledges the I I events as "regional competition[ s]." The letter from the I I indicates 
that the Petitioner defeated "12 other competitors" ~-----~in 2017, while 11 athletes competed 
in 2016. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, 
internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The selection ofNobel Laureates, the example provided 
by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, is 
a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. 
1 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
2 
The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that his prizes at least approach a comparable level of 
recogmt1on. The Petitioner has not shown that either of the above competitions has the major, 
international recognition that the regulation demands. The international character of the competitions is 
not sufficient by itself; the regulatory reference to "lesser . . . internationally recognized prizes" 
demonstrates that a prize or award can be international without being major. 
The Petitioner has not established receipt of a major internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he met the criteria numbered (i), (iii), and (v). He also newly claims to have 
met the criterion numbered (viii), relating to a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations 
or establishments. The Petitioner does not discuss the criterion numbered (vii), and therefore we 
consider that issue to be abandoned.2 We discuss the claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner submits evidence that he won or placed highly at events sponsored by the IMMAF or 
subsidiary organizations. The Director determined that the submitted evidence is deficient for various 
reasons, such as inadequate translations or incomplete documentation. But taken as a whole, the 
documentation shows that the Petitioner has won national and international competitions under the 
authority of a major international governing body. We do not agree with the Petitioner that he has won a 
major internationally recognized award, but the evidence of record is sufficient to meet the lesser 
standards of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits copies and printouts of articles from various sources. Some of these materials are 
lists of competitors and tournament results, which are not "about" any one given participant. Others 
mention the Petitioner inl passing I but are not about him; for example, an article on IMMAF' s website 
focuses on the return to of an athlete who had been competing for I I and names the 
Petitioner in a discussion of how thel lteam had fared in that athlete's absence. 
Below, we focus on articles that prominently feature the Petitioner. Such articles have appeared on 
IMMAF' s website and in publications such as Illyria Press and Klan. The burden is on the Petitioner to 
establish that these publications qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Illyria Press is described as a publication forl I and includes advertisements for local 
businesses such as law firms and car dealerships, indicating a relatively narrow readership of I I 
language speakers in the New York metropolitan area. 
For one I ~language article from Sport Ekspres, the Petitioner submitted only a partial translation. 
The Petitioner's name is in the article's headline, but appears only twice in the article itself Without a 
complete translation, we cannot determine the extent to which the article is about the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner submits materials from the websites of two majorl I television networks. The 
stories identify the Petitioner as one of twol I athletes competing at an international event in 
Bahrain. The submitted printouts are brief announcements of the upcoming matches, followed soon after 
by the results of those competitions. These very brief pieces, comprising a few sentences each, identify 
the Petitioner as an MMA fighter but otherwise provide little information about him. This coverage was 
about the event rather than the participants. 
Other materials in the record discuss the Petitioner in greater depth, but the Petitioner has not shown that 
this coverage appeared in media that qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner submits information pages for some of the websites, but while these printouts 
provide some background information, they do not show that the websites meet the requirements 
specified in the regulation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner states that his highl competrve rankings amount to contributions of major significance 
because his victories "have placed as a true competitor in the world of MMA." This is a vague 
and general statement. Furthermore, the Petitioner does not explain how improving! ts rankings 
by an indeterminate amount constitutes an original athletic contribution. Skill and success are not 
intrinsically original contributions, and the Petitioner has not shown how his victories are different from 
those of other winners of MMA competitions. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We will not consider this newly claimed criterion during these appeal proceedings. The Petitioner did 
not claim to have satisfied this criterion until he filed the appeal, and the exhibits submitted in support of 
the claim were not in the record prior to the appeal. The purpose of an appeal is to establish error in the 
decision being appealed. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) requires that an appellant "identify 
specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." Because the Petitioner 
had never previously claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the Director cannot have erred with respect 
to the criterion. 
Moreover, as the newly claimed criterion cannot change the outcome of the petition, we decline to remand 
the matter for the Director to make a determination on that criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25 (1976) ("As a general rule, courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach."); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has won some ref onal titles and placed highly at an 
international competition, and in doing so has brought I some degree of notice in the MMA 
sport, but the record does not demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We note that 
the Petitioner's most notable successes have been at the amateur level. He has since progressed to 
professional competition, but the record does not establish his professional ranking or otherwise 
demonstrate that he has earned acclaim and reached the top of his field as a professional athlete. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10875587 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a clinical chemist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner then appealed the matter, 
asserting that she met two of the evidentiary criteria in addition to the two that the Director found she 
met. We dismissed the appeal, finding that the evidence was not sufficient to show that she met either 
of the additional criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for 
the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); those relating to her authorship of scholarly articles, and her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she also met two 
additional criteria, relating to her membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of 
their members, and to her original contributions of major significance to her field. In our previous 
decision, we agreed with the Director that she did not meet those two additional criteria. On motion, 
the Petitioner submits new evidence in support of both criteria, and asserts that our decision regarding 
her membership in at least one of the professional associations was incorrect based upon the evidence 
of record at the time. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner had previously submitted evidence of her membership in several professional 
associations in her field. However, we determined that the membership requirements of these 
associations, which mainly consists of educational and experience thresholds, did not rise to the level 
of outstanding achievements. On motion, the Petitioner provides new evidence which she asserts 
shows that her Ph.D. degree in clinical and bioanalytical chemistry and her post-doctoral training in 
the same field qualify as outstanding achievements. Regarding her degree, she provides evidence 
from the website of the Commission for Accreditation in Clinical Chemistry (ComACC) showing that 
the doctoral program atl !University l I accredited by the ComACC. 
She also provides a journal article published in 2007 which states that the American Board of Clinical 
Chemistry (ABCC) allows for certification for those for those clinical chemists who received their 
Ph.D. from an accredited program, whereas those who received their degrees from non-accredited 
programs must also have five years of practical experience in order to qualify for certification. 
Although the Petitioner does not articulate how these facts show that obtaining her degree is an 
outstanding achievement, she appears to be relying upon the small number of clinical chemists who 
have graduated from a ComACC accredited program, noting that only 36 students have completed the 
program at Din the past 10 years. However, the fact that only one university in North America has 
chosen to attain an accreditation for its program tailored to clinical chemistry scientists does not prove 
that those who complete such a program have made an outstanding achievement. The Petitioner has 
not established that the clinical and bioanalytical chemistry program at c=Jis highly competitive or 
rigorous in comparison to similar programs at other universities in a way which would make holders 
ofc=]Ph.D.s stand out from their peers. Further, the 2007 article describes earning a Ph.D. as part 
of "the training pathway" for clinical chemistry scientists, meaning that obtaining any such degree is 
2 
fulfilling a minimum requirement for employment in the career that puts the recipient on an equal 
footing with his or her peers. 
The Petitioner makes a similar assertion about the post-doctoral training she completed at thel I 
College of Medicine and Dchildren's Hospital, noting that the program is 1 of 35 accredited by 
ComACC. By comparing this number with the total number of bachelor's, master's and doctorate 
degrees awarded in the field of biochemistry, the Petitioner concludes that "It is very clear that I am 
in the Top 1 % of my field due to my Ph.D. degree & post doctoral training ... " While it is clear that 
the Petitioner is better qualified to pursue a career as a clinical chemist than those who have not yet 
completed their education and training, she has not shown that the completion of that training is an 
achievement that stands out from those of her peers. 
In addition, the Petitioner asserts that her membership in the American Society of Hematology (ASH) 
is qualifying, and refers to a letter from ASH which states that in addition to a doctoral degree or 
equivalent, a member must "demonstrate a continuous interest in any discipline important to 
hematology, as evidenced by work in the field, original contributions, and attendance at meetings 
concerning hematology." The Petitioner notes that her two articles published in ASH journals can be 
considered to be "original contributions," but does not explain how the publication of these two papers 
is an outstanding achievement. While we agree that papers published in scientific journals should 
present original research findings or data that make some contribution to the pool of knowledge in a 
particular field, the letter indicates that this is one of three ways in which members must "demonstrate 
a continuous interest in any discipline important to hematology." The Petitioner has not shown that 
demonstrating interest in a field by contributing to it rises to the level of an outstanding achievement 
in that field. 
For the reasons stated above, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion, nor has she shown that our previous decision was based upon an 
incorrect application of law or policy. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In our previous decision, we found that the evidence regarding the Petitioner's work on thel.__ ___ __. 
I I in clinical tests was insufficient to show that it had been widely implemented or otherwise 
impacted the field of clinical chemistry. We specifically noted that a reference letter from the director 
of clinical testing at the I I did not indicate that that institution had implemented the 
Petitioner's work, and that the extent of the impact of her work was not apparent. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits additional evidence which she asserts shows how her research helped to form 
guidelines relating td I that were adopted at th~ I and other health care 
organizations. 
Specifically, the Petitioner resubmits a copy of a paper she authored regarding '--------~ which was published in Annals of Clinical & Laboratory Science, as well as two papers which make . 
reference to that paper. The first, titled 'I I I I was published in Clinical Biochemistry in 2019. It cites to the Petitioner's 
paper once, along with a group of seven other papers, in stating that investigations have shownl I 
3 
I lin several types of assays. The Petitioner asserts that the fact that one of the authors of 
this paper is from the I I and others are from several different healthcare facilities across 
the United States, supports the statement in the letter noted above indicating implementation of her 
work at "many hospitals." Specifically, she asserts that "best practices are only generated when the 
respective healthcare organizations are adhering to those best practices." While we accept the 
argument that those recommending best practices are most likely either already following those 
practices or intend to ( assuming the recommender has the authority to implement the recommended 
practices), this evidence does not overcome our previous finding that the extent of the Petitioner's 
contribution to these recommended best practices has not been established. The paper indicates that 
hers was one of several papers which confirmed the I I issue, and does not show that 
the significance of this contribution towards development of the recommended best practices. 
Similarly, the Petitioner also submits on motion a copy of guidelines developed by the American 
Association of Clinical Chemists (AACC), which she indicates "were generated by contributions on a 
global level." Like the Clinical Biochemistry paper, this document also references the Petitioner's 
paper on one occasion, noting that it was one of three studies which reportedl I for in 
vitro studies o±O immunoassays on equipment from a particular manufacturer. Other studies and 
case reports are also summarized in this document, and it indicates that the United States Food and 
Drug Administration issued guidelines regarding I I in 2017, which "echoed those 
issued previously from manufacturers ... " While this evidence shows that the Petitioner's work 
contributed to the knowledge on this issue, it does not establish that her contribution was of major 
significance, as her work and resulting paper was one of several others which added knowledge on 
this issue and led others to develop best practices and guidance. 
Accordingly, after review of the new evidence submitted on motion, we find that it does not establish 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. In addition, after review of the new evidence submitted with her motion 
to reopen, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she meets the individual criteria claimed 
or that she is otherwise eligible for the requested benefit. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19893950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cardiovascular researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must meet at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his eligibility for an additional criterion. After 
reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Although his brief makes various eneral claims about his research and work, the Petitioner focuses 
on his paper entitled, 
published in the European Heart Journal on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology (ESC). The Petitioner references a letter from I I who 
stated: 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual (providing that although funded and 
published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance) . 
2 
His paper has already helped in formulation of two international guidelines which 
outline the worldwide standards for care to be followed in the care of patients. These 
guidelines include the 20181 
I I guideline on 
published in the European Heart Journal as well as the 2018 _____ 
I I published in the Journal of the American Heart 
Association. These guidelines form the basis of diagnosis and management of patients 
withl I in various conditions. [The Petitioner's] influence on these two 
major international guidelines from the leading heart associations in the world is huge. 
This has improved the medical care of patients who suffer from this complication after 
cardiac surgery and improve patient outcomes after cardiac surgery at our center as 
well as worldwide. 
The Petitioner also cites to other letters commenting on his papers and the guidelines, such as 
"[p ]hysicians and researchers around the world typically refer to these guidelines when making 
decisions on how to manage care of their patients in their daily practice" I land "[t]hese 
guidelines are considered the best source of information for researchers, cardiologist[ s], and cardiac 
surgeons to best understand these conditions and provide a framework for management of these 
conditions on an international level"I I 
The record contains the "2018 While the '---------------------------' letters indicated the importance of the guidelines in the field, a review of these guidelines do not show 
that his paper played a significant part or role in its creation. I I letter indicated that the 
Petitioner's paper helped in the formulation of guidelines; however, the Petitioner's paper is 1 of 786 
other articles cited within the guidelines. Moreover, the Petitioner's paper is not highlighted or 
distinguished from the other references. Indeed, the guidelines make a single, brief reference to the 
Petitioner's paper, indicating that [ f]urther details on the diagnosis and management ofl I 
Dare provided in a recent position paper" without any further elaboration. In the case here, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner's paper within the guidelines resulted in a contribution of 
major significance. 2 
In addition, the letters do not articulate and explain how the Petitioner's paper "has improved the 
medical care of patients" and "im rove d atient outcomes." I I Likewise, the Petitioner 
references a letter from _______ who generally stated that "through [the Beneficiary's] 
work in bothl I and ___ through an important series of publications, he has made major 
contributions to our understanding of I I afte surgery" without 
expanding on how the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted or influenced the field in a major 
way. In the absence of specific information detailing the impact or influence of the Petitioner's work, 
the letters do not demonstrate that the work has risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner indicates that he submitted independent and objective reference letters. 3 For 
instance, stated that the Beneficiary "appears to be uniquely qualified for a 
2 The record does not contain the "201 to show both the extent and 
significance of the Petitioner's contribution to these guidelines. 
3 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
successful career in academic cardiology" and "[h]]is review ofl I in the intensive care unit 
has been most helpful." Here, the lack of specific, detailed information does not show how the 
Beneficiary's past work has caused contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. In addition, while a letter from I indicated that the Beneficiary's 
proposed treatment discussed in the position paper resulted in him sending out tests for his patients, 
the letter does not discuss how it has impacted the overall field rather than limited to his practice. 4 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's research or work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claims that his paper "was immediately endorsed for use by the American 
College of Cardiology [ACC]" and "[t]his alone shows the sheer impact on the field of cardiology." 
Although the Petitioner submitted two postings from ACC's website indicating the publication of the 
position paper, the screenshots do not support the Petitioner's assertion that ACC immediately 
endorsed his paper or findings. Again, the postings simply report on the paper's publication and 
summarize its points; there is no indication that ACC endorsed the paper or that the field considers the 
resulting research to be a contribution of major significance. 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that all of his published works have garnered more than 600 citations. 
As guidance, examples of original work that constitutes major, significant contributions include, but 
not limited to, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working 
in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's 
work as authoritative in the field. 7 In addition, citatory evidence may contain probative value in 
corroborating statements in recommendation letters or supporting other documentation in establishing 
the significance of the contributions. If the Petitioner provides citatory evidence, the burden remains 
with the Petitioner to show the accuracy, reliability, and relevance of those figures and explain how 
they demonstrate original contributions of major significance in the field. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations represents 
contributions of major significance in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a 
petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying which published research, if any, the 
field considers to be majorly significant. Here, the Petitioner does not explain or specify how the 
number of citations to his individual or particular articles resulted in original contributions of major 
4 See 6 users Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
5 See 6 USeIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. See also Kazarian. 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulat01y 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner contends that his articles have been published in 
"prestigious medical journals." The Petitioner did not establish that the publication of articles in highly 
ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research in the field or that every article published in a "prestigious" journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 
F.3d 1115. 
We note that at initial filing the Petitioner provided citation data from Google Scholar reflecting that 
his position paper discussed above received 65 citations while two of his most citation papers received 
307 and 107 citations, respectively. Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an 
indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the citation figures for any of his written published articles are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of the citation data. For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations 
are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field recognizes as having 
been majorly significant. Although this citations indicate that his research and work has received some 
attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation numbers to his individual 
articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 8 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 
(BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal/), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2023 In Re: 28156055 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The implementing regulation further states that the term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). It also sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, 
a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and commercial success). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been working as a fashion model since 2015. She is currently represented bye=] 
~---___.I and has attained 0-1 nonimmigrant status in this occupation. Her modeling experience 
includes print and commercial work, with appearances in locations such asl I 
andl Imagazine covers and editorial shoots, and commercial and promotional work. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, she asserted that she met four ofthe regulatory criteria. The 
Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the high remuneration requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with published material (iii), 
leading or critical role (viii), or artistic display (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses her eligibility for the three criteria that the Director concluded that 
she did not meet. However, in the proceeding before the Director and now on appeal, she does not 
assert (and the record does not establish) that she meets the criteria relating to awards (i), membership 
(ii), judging (iv), significant original contributions (v), scholarly articles (vi), or commercial success 
(x). Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not them farther. See, e.g., Matter ofM­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
A. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard by disregarding her claim that she has established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability through an "alternative argument" in which she contends "the 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) factors would not readily apply [to her occupation because of] the age old argument that 
[a fashion model] is basically a replaceable object, who [is] merely in a fashion publication or fashion 
show to highlight the work of the brand and/or the fashion designer." 
She asserts that she "is a model ofextraordinary ability under 'the final merits determination,' 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) factors, or no factors." We have carefully considered the Petitioner's assertions and 
conclude that her reliance upon this "alternative argument" is misplaced. 
2 
To begin with, it appears that the Petitioner is asking us to ignore the regulatory requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) which provides that she must demonstrate international recognition of her 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), 
or in the alternative that she has satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We lack the authority to waive or disregard any of the Act's requirements, as 
implemented by regulation. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 695 (1974) ("So long as this 
regulation is extant it has the force of law."). Immigration regulations carry the force and effect of 
law. United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260,265 (1954). 
Further, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if 
they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to 
their occupation, which in this case involves performing the work of a fashion model. While the 
Petitioner suggests that the regulatory criteria "may not" apply to her occupation, she does not discuss 
for instance, why the criteria relating to judging, awards, significant original contributions, or 
commercial success is inapplicable to the fashion model occupation. 
Also, contrary to the Petitioner's contention that she "is a model of extraordinary ability under 'the final 
merits determination"' regardless of whether she meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we only decide whether a petitioner received sustained national or international acclaim 
in her field of endeavor in a final merits determination after we have determined she has garnered a 
major, internationally recognized award, or has satisfied at least three of the criteria. See Kazarian 
596 F.3d at 1115; 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part­
f-chapter-2. For all of these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner's reliance on the comparable 
evidence clause at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) as an acceptable "alternative" to meeting at least three of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) prior to USCIS conducting a final merits determination is 
without merit. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion's requirements, she must meet at least two more 
within this first procedural step of the adjudication. On appeal, the Petitioner relies on previous 
arguments the Director considered in denying the petition. After considering all the evidence in the 
record, we conclude she has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. While we may not discuss 
every document submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to determine whether a petitioner's evidence meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion, we examine the evidence and decide whether the published material in the record is related 
to the person and the person's work in the field. The published material should be about the person, 
relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's 
work or another organization and that organization's work. 
3 
Any materials the pet1t10ner submits must demonstrate the value of the person's work and 
contributions and must not be solely focused on the employer or organization that the person is 
associated with. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling products or promoting the 
person's services are not generally considered to be published material about the person (this includes 
seemingly objective content about the petitioner in major print publications that the petitioner or the 
petitioner's employer paid for). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. 
In denying the petition, the Director expressed concern that the Petitioner offered "self-manufactured 
evidence that was not objective or probative" in support of her eligibility for this criterion. 
Specifically, he noted that the Petitioner had provided copies of "digitized material, possibly scanned 
and some altered with handwriting on the copies." The Director also concluded that as some of the 
submitted material did not mention the Petitioner, it did not meet the plain language requirements of 
the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's conclusions about the probative value ofher evidence, 
pointing to the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l ), which provides in pertinent 
part: "[i]n general, ordinary legible photocopies of [evidence] will be acceptable for initial filing and 
approval." She contends that the Director erred in "rejecting our scans of [the Petitioner's] original 
appearances in magazines." 
In the initial filing, the Petitioner provided copies of her modeling photographs that appeared to be 
pasted into a digitized document from another source, accompanied by text that she added alongside 
the photos to indicate the date the picture was published, the media that published it, and the names of 
the individuals credits with the work involved in creating the photos, such as the model(s), 
photographer, stylist, hair stylist, and makeup artists. The Petitioner also noted: 
[I]n submitting the evidence in this section, we genuinely feel that [English] 
translations, given the extremely small amount of text in these [f]ashion [e]ditorial 
proofs (they're all about the pictures, after all), were patently unnecessary. As such we 
did not include translations, because we did not deem them to be "necessary" pursuant 
to the language of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) discussing his concerns about this material. He 
asked that the Petitioner submit evidence that comports with the plain language requirements outlined 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), which outlines the requirements for 
English translations offoreign language documents. In response, the Petitioner submitted photocopies 
of the magazine pages that included her modeling photos as well as covers of the magazine issues that 
they appeared in, along with pages that provided the "credits" for the photoshoot -which identified 
the date, location, and parties involved in the production. She provided similar information for other 
published materials that she performed modeling services for, such as her work as a model for 
advertisements ultimately posted on billboards. Additionally, she provided certified English 
translations for the materials that were published in a language other than English. 
Considering the evidence submitted in the RFE response, we conclude that the submitted materials 
partially meet the plain language requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) in that they supply the 
title, date, and author of the published material, and are accompanied by acceptable certified English 
4 
translations. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's conclusion in the denial that the Petitioner's 
evidence was largely limited to "self-manufactured" documentation. 
However, based on our review of the record we agree with the Director that the documentation 
submitted does not ultimately meet the plain language requirements of the criterion. The record 
reflects that some of the magazines that published the Petitioner's modelinj photographs qualify as 
"major trade publications, or major media," (e.g.,I I[V-],I [C-],I lfM-], 
and I I[H-]). But the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to show that this 
published material is about her and specifically relates to her work in the field of fashion modeling. 
For instance, H-published a magazine issue which contains an article featurin ictures of the 
Petitioner modelin clothin and fashion accessories. The title of the article is 
.__________________ ____. The article includes several pages of photographs of 
the Petitioner modeling clothing and accessories from various fashion houses. One such page is 
entitled .____________ __, and contains a photograph of the Petitioner modeling a pink 
dress, and the underlying caption identifies the companies that designed her dress, shoes, and jewelry. 
The other pages are similarly captioned with a fashion theme, and the names of the companies that 
designed the products that the Petitioner is wearing. 
Likewise, the Petitioner submitted copies of pages from V-magazine which contains her modeling 
photos. According to the English translation, one of her photos was captioned: "[ s ]lant shoulder top 
with gathered tie waistband and tight skirt in the same color, ornamented with splendid geometric 
earrings to outline feminine curves and personality. Dangling earrings [designer's name,]. Off 
shoulder top [designer's name]." While the Petitioner is "credited" as being the model in the photos 
in the "credits" page, the article does not otherwise discuss or mention the Petitioner or her work as a 
fashion model. 
We conclude that these magazine articles and similar articles such as those that appeared in C-and M­
magazines were published for the purpose of reporting on current fashion trends and marketing 
designer clothing for purchase by retail establishments and the public. While the Petitioner provided 
her modeling services as part of the creation of this published material, the published content is not 
focused on her and her work in the field. As noted above, marketing materials created for the purpose 
of selling products or promoting a person's services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the person. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that USCIS holds to an "antiquated and superficial argument that [the 
fashion model] is basically a folly replaceable object, whose merely in a fashion publication or fashion 
show to highlight the work of the brand and/or the fashion designer." She asserts that the Director 
overlooked the caliber of the photographers who have taken her modeling photos, and the stature of 
the fashion magazines that have published her photographs in a way that implies that these factors are 
part of this criterion's plain language requirements when they are is not. But we must adhere to the 
criterion's requirements and to agency policy in evaluating whether the evidence submitted satisfies 
the criterion. Those requirements specify, among other things, that the published material must be 
about the Petitioner and the content must relate to the Petitioner's work in the field. Here, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence or argument sufficient to overcome our conclusion that the 
5 
evidence presented constitutes articles focused on fashion trends, or marketing and press materials 
created for the ultimate purpose of selling or reviewing products, not published material about her and 
her work in the field as required by the criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts "in the alternative" on appeal that this criterion is not applicable to the 
fashion model occupation, even though she has sought to establish her eligibility for it as a fashion 
model throughout this proceeding. She maintains that she has presented "evidence in fair satisfaction" 
of this and other criterion while at the same time indicating the "8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) factors might 
not 'readily apply' to a model's occupation." She asks that we consider the evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion as part of a "final merits determination" under the comparable provisions at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), disregarding whether or not it applies to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We incorporate our previous discussion explaining why the Petitioner has not justified her reliance on 
the comparable evidence clause at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) as an acceptable "alternative" to meeting at 
least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) prior to USCIS conducting a final merits 
determination under this and the other criterion analyzed in this decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the evidence that she provided constitutes published material about her according to the plain 
language of this criterion. This criterion is not met. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. In addition, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate the organization or establishment, or the department or 
division for which she holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 
In the evidence before the Director, the Petitioner contended she qualifies for this criterion based in 
part because E-, a fashion magazine, hired a well-established photographer (Q-) for a photo shoot 
focused on "[B-'s] latest 1945 bag" in which the Petitioner hired to provide services as a fashion 
model. The Petitioner provided information about Q-and asserts that E-and Q-"can work with anyone 
they want," suggesting that her participation in the production was critical to its success. Specifically, 
the Petitioner alleged that by participating in this photoshoot, she played a critical role for the handbag 
designer, the magazine in which this material was published, and the photographer who took the 
pictures. The Director denied the petition, in part, noting that the Petitioner is a self-employed fashion 
model who negotiates temporary contractual work in the occupation, and that the record did not 
demonstrate that she has held leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to the fashion brands that she has performed modeling work for, but 
the evidence provided falls short in establishing, for example, how the Petitioner's involvement in a 
photoshoot for a marketing campaign that featured B-' s new handbags translates into her performing 
a leading or critical role for E-magazine or B-, the fashion house that designed the advertised products. 
The Petitioner provided copies of the photos taken during this and other photoshoots, and evidence 
that she was credited as the model in these marketing campaigns. The Petitioner posits "it would seem 
6 
that a model in a top [f]ashion magazine couldn't help but be "critical" to not only the top fashion 
magazine, but also the brands they are modeling," but she did not provide evidence to substantiate and 
explain how her claimed leadership and critical role contributions for E-and B-compares to others 
who are holding positions of authority and responsibility within these organizations. Notably, she has 
not provided supporting documentary evidence from E-or B-to substantiate that her involvement with 
these organizations was either leading or critical to them. 
As discussed, the Petitioner also looks to her involvement as a fashion model in marketing campaigns 
for other fashion designers, which were published in various magazines. While the Petitioner asserts 
that the significance of this evidence was not given sufficient weight by the Director, without more, 
we agree with the Director that the evidence is insufficient to substantiate her assertions. In evaluating 
the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. This criterion is not met. 
C. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the two evidentiary criteria discussed above. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the one remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) cannot 
change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this remaining issue. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
D. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 pet1t10n, a 
classification for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 
0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, 
definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. For instance, the "Extraordinary ability in 
the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But 
in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajfd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
Petitioner has achieved success as an international fashion model, the record does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2023 In Re: 26293166 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. In addition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not establish her intent to continue to 
work in her area of extraordinary ability in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner met three of the claimed evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not show she garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and her achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise, demonstrating she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues she satisfies additional criteria, and her evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already 
shown she fulfills the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the 
requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
international acclaim, 2 she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's earlier background, according to the initial cover letter: 
. . . In 1987, she entered music school named after I I and 
graduated in 1994, the class of violin. In 1986 she sang in 1 I Junior Ensemble. 
From 1995 to 1997 she was a singer at the I /band. From 1997 to 2003, [the 
Petitioner] worked as a vocalist at the I _Theater of Armenia, where she 
worked as a vocal teacher from 2001 to 2002. 
In 2005, [the Petitioner] entered the~--------------~and 
graduated in 2009 receiving bachelor's degree in in [sic] the field ofVocal Art, Variety­
Jazz Singing. In 2010, [the Petitioner] received master's degree froml I 
~---------~in Musical Art, Singing-Variety-Jazz Singing. The same ~ started her postgraduate studies again at the~-----------~ 
L___J and graduated with honors in 2012. [The Petitioner] received her Postgraduate 
Certificate on September 28, 2012, during her solo concert atl !Sports 
and Concerts Complex i~ !Armenia .... Since 2014, [the Petitioner] works 
as a Lecturer at Jazz and Pop Department of Vocal-Theory F acuity ofl I 
As discussed farther below, the Petitioner has garnered awards, received media coverage, served on 
panels for music contests, been praised by others in the field, and performed at concert venues while 
earning income from her shows. However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not shown that she has risen to that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be 
set for aliens ofextraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented a career that meets this 
very high standard. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictiona,y's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting her receipt of about two dozen awards from 2003 to 2019. 
Although the awards may show some recognition of her work, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
they indicate that she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). While the Petitioner submitted accompanying articles 
reporting on the winners, the Petitioner did not establish that she received awards indicative of the 
upper echelon in the field. Rather, based on the documentation, the majority of the awards were 
recently established or created, such as her receipt of the "Revelation of the Year" and "Hit of the 
Year" at the First National Music Awards in I I Armenia. In fact, according to the article from 
aravot.am, "almost all the participants were given something, probably not to celebrate the New Year 
offended." Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her awards place her among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered about three dozen articles covering 2006 -2018. 
Again, while the published material indicates some attention to her and her work, the Petitioner did 
not establish that such reporting is consistent with a level ofsuccess consistent with being among "that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner, for instance, did not show how her limited media coverage, averaging about 2 - 3 
articles per year, compares to other singers among the very top of the field. Here, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how her press coverage reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very 
high standard ... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner presented evidence showing she participated on the jury for ~--------~ on 
Armenia TV, as well as a judge for three student festivals/contests. Here, the Petitioner's judging 
experience involves evaluating the work of amateurs and aspiring singers rather than nationally or 
internationally renowned artists. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that these evaluations 
contribute to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. She did not show, for example, how her experience in evaluating aspiring singers and 
students compares to others at the very top of the field. Without evidence that sets her apart from 
others in the field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of reviewing or judging 
recognized, acclaimed singers or experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that her judging 
experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
We note here that the Petitioner provided recommendation letters praising her for her talents, skills, 
and abilities. For instance,~------~opined on the Petitioner's "unique velvety voice and 
exceptional melismatic singing." Although the letters commend the Petitioner on her songs, they do 
not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that she is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among the upper echelon or that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Further, the letters do not establish that she has 
4 
made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to the display of her work the Petitioner submitted screenshots and___._.____._____, 
performing at various venues, such as California· 
Sports and Concerts Complex in,_____. Armenia; and ~----------~ France. 
Although the Petitioner established that she exhibited her work on television and at concerts, festivals, 
and other music venues, simply displaying one's work, however, does not automatically place one at 
the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the significance of her performances, such as they brought wide praise from 
critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for the success of standings of the 
events. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, regarding her commercial successes, while the 
Petitioner ointed out that 1,233 seats were sold out of 1,381 seats at her 2007 concert at th~ 
1-----~------' California and she sold out 2,041 seats at her 2012 concert at the l..==J 
,_____ ~Sports and Concerts Complex in I I Armenia, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her ticket sales place her among the small percentage at the very top of the field. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not compare her box office receipts or ticket sales to others among the very top of the 
field. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish herself from others in the field or shows a 
career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that her work garnered a level ofattention or was regularly seen at highly reputable 
venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that she earned approximately $4,200 for a two­
hour concert. However, the Petitioner did not establish that she commanded earnings commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not show that her wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not demonstrate, for example, 
how her salary compared to others at the very top ofher field, or that she received notoriety or attention 
based on her earnings separating herself from others in the field or placing her in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
5 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 4 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 As the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. we need not 
consider whether she will continue to work her area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we decline to reach and hereby reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating 
that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where 
applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10994398 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a footwear designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was a footwear designer forL~from 2004 to 2007 andDfrom 2007 to 2016, 
and has been a senior footwear designer fore=] since 2016.1 At the time of filing, the Petitioner 
worked o~ I product line. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the evidentiary criteria numbered (viii) and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other two claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met all four 
claimed criteria. We agree with the Director's determinations regarding criteria (viii) and (ix), and we 
explain, below, why the Petitioner has also satisfied criteria (iii) and (v). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 Both._l _ ____.I and D use._l __ _.!trade names. 
2 
The Director determined that three of four submitted articles are about the Petitioner, relating to his 
work in the field, but that the Petitioner had not shown that the articles appeared in publications that 
meet the regulatory requirements. 
The strongest evidence under this criterion relates to ~I ---;::::====:!...I ..=a:....Jpc:..:e::.:..;riodical aimed at sneaker 
enthusiasts. The Petitioner's evidence establishes that I I has a very substantial 
international following, to the point that other publications have covered its success. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Letters in the record describe the Petitioner's participation in various projects. The Director gave limited 
weight to the submitted letters, because their authors have all worked with the Petitioner in various 
capacities. Therefore, their familiarity with the Petitioner and his work is not indicative of wider 
recognition in the field. The Petitioner has, however, corroborated key assertions in those letters. 
For example, the senior vice president of Global Design for I I states that the Petitioner developed a 
'I • I which "delivers hugely superior levels of I • I and natural foot 
movement." The official indicates that the Petitioner's work has had "significant and widespread 
influence." Other materials in the record show that other brands have begun introducing shoes with 
I l provoking comparisons to the Petitioner's! ldesign. In this way, the record shows 
both that the Petitioner's work has influenced other shoe designers, and that the Petitioner's design is the 
recognized reference point for the competing imitations. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established his eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. 
The record as a whole supports a finding of eligibility. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's 
leading or critical role ror orgriz~ establishments with a distinguished reputation, performing 
in key design roles for andL___j both major footwear brands. The Petitioner has worked at 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that adjudicators should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
the highest levels of major brand initiatives, some of which maintained steady sales even when the 
industry as a whole endured a significant decline. The Petitioner and his designs have attracted 
significant attention in publications devoted to fashion, or to footwear specifically, and the record 
documents how the Petitioner's work forl lhas influenced competitors' designs to a greater 
degree than the Director acknowledged in the denial notice. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim in his field 
and submitted extensive documentation of his achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he 
intends to continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that his entry will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645032 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 06, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a licensed professional engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
individuals who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either 
through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or by satisfying at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was employed as an HV AC Project Engineer withl I I I at the time of filing in January 2021, and that he joined! I 
in a similar role shortly thereafter. He earned his bachelor of engineering degree in polymer 
materials and engineering froml IUniversityl in China in 2012, and a master 
of science in mechanical engineering froml I University in 2015. The Petitioner has completed 
additional specialized professional training and at the time of filing, he was enrolled in a graduate 
certificate program in nanotechnology at I I University. The Petitioner is a licensed 
professional engineer in the states of Texas and California and indicates his intent to continue working 
in the engineering services field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserts that he can meet six of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or international-recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional journals; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic showcases or exhibitions; and 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
2 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the claimed criteria. The record supports 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner has published scholarly articles in professional 
publications in his field, and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked relevant evidence demonstrating that he 
meets the additional claimed criteria and is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
According to the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion must establish that an individual is the recipient of a prize or award, that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized, and that the prize or award is one for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. 1 
The Petitioner submitted evidence related to his participation in three competitions or "challenges" 
sponsored by I University, including a 2020 Challenge, a 20211 I challenge, 
and a 2022 Competition. The record reflects that the latter two competitions took place after 
the filing of this petition in January 2021. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements 
for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F .R.:.il.Q1.2(b )(1 ). Therefore, we will limit our discussion to the award the Petitioner 
received in the 2020 L__JChallenge, which is the only documented prize or award that pre-dates 
the filing of the petition 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included an e-mail from the 
Team indicating that his team has "been selected to receive a Challenge prize of $375" 
as well as a copy of a check in that amount issued to him by __ University. The Director 
advised the Petitioner that the submitted documentation was insufficient to demonstrate that he had 
received a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field and 
requested additional evidence in support of his eligibility under this criterion. 
The Director observed that the supplemental documentation submitted in response to the request for 
evidence (RFE) indicated that the 2020 I I Challenge was a graduate-level college 
compet1t10n. The Director acknowledged that individuals who are not I I students may 
participate but concluded that the evidence did not establish that the competition awards nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes for excellence. In this regard, the Director referenced evidence 
explaining that the competition is a project-based "challenge" organized atl I in which 
students' projects are assessed based on "thoroughness; creativity; technical depth; flexibility and 
robustness; and readiness to deploy in a short timeframe." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field.) 
3 
Director failed to consider all the evidence submitted in response to the RFE. He maintains that his 
2020 I !Challenge award meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
that he meets this criterion. 
The record reflects that individuals who wished to participate in the 20201 I Challenge 
were required to register for a noncredit I I University engineering course during the 2020 
I I term which was graded on a pass/fail basis. A description that appeared on the I 
Engineering website states that "[ e Jach design challenge promises to be an intense and fun, fast 
learning experience where students will take a deep dive into various subjects." As noted by the 
Director, while the record indicates that not all project team members are required to bel I 
students, the description of the program indicates that it is intended for engineering students who are 
expected to work on their projects under the guidance of assigned faculty or mentors; it is not a 
competition designed for seasoned professional engineers and it is unclear whether the participating 
teams included non-student members. The criteria used to grant the award and any limitations on 
competitors may be considered in determining whether a given prize or award was based on 
"excellence in the field."2 
The evidence indicates that 14 teams competed in the 2020 I I Challenge during the 
term in which the Petitioner was enrolled. His two-person team received a "mention" award 
as a top five finisher, but he did not win one of the top three prizes. Further, the record does not 
include evidence that the awards or prizes issued at the conclusion of the challenge were recognized 
outside of the awarding institution, as all submitted notices of the challenge results were reported in I lown publications and in internal emails to participating students and I I staff. This 
evidence is insufficient to demonstrate the national or international recognition associated with the 
award. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director did not consider the international reputation enjoyed by I !University and its engineering department. Further, he emphasizes that another winning 
team went on to receive $6 million in fonding for a project initiated as part of al I I I Challenge. However, neither the university's reputation nor the success enjoyed by a fellow 
competitor is sufficient to establish that the honorable mention award the Petitioner received in this 
student competition is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. For 
the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards 
or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 
4 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association, and that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based his membership in the ASM I I Committee. The Petitioner provided evidence that he served two three-year terms (from 
2015 to 2021) as a member of this committee of ASM International, a professional association in the 
materials engineering field. 4 However, the Director determined that the supporting documentation, 
which included ASM International' s Constitution and Bylaws and evidence specific to the I I I !Committee, did not establish that admission as a member is conditioned on having 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by conflating the requirements for regular 
individual professional membership in ASM International with the requirements for committee 
membership appointment, noting that the latter "far exceeds the standard requirements for regular 
membership" referenced in the Director's decision. In this regard, he notes the limited size of the 
ASMI I committee (26 to 30 members) as "an extremely important factor." In 
addition, he emphasizes that the previously submitted evidence establishes that committee 
appointments must ultimately be approved by members of the ASM Board, which is comprised of 
recognized experts in the field. 
The Petitioner provided a published profile of the ASM _______ Committee, which 
describes qualifications for membership as follows: "ADP Committee members are experts in the field 
ofl I (most are PhD's) and are typically! I users and researchers." It also 
identifies the committee size as "26-30 members." The submitted Rules for Government of ASM 
International, at Article V, discuss "Society Committees and Councils," and indicate that these 
committees are comprised of individual professional members of ASM, assembled for the purpose of 
conducting designated functions of the Society. Regarding committee appointments, the Rules for 
Government indicate that "[aa ]11 Society Committee appointments shall be reviewed and nominated by 
the Vice President ... and shall be subject to approval by the Board." 
Based on this limited information, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's appointment to 
the ASM _______ Committee required "outstanding achievements." While the record 
indicates that the committee members are expected to be "experts" in the field ofl 
there is insufficient information to support a determination that ASM equates expertise in a given field 
with "outstanding achievements." The submitted evidence does not sufficiently explain what specific 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner also provided evidence of his membership in a standards 
committee of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). He did not 
claim eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on this committee membership at the time offiling in January 2021. 
A submitted roster for the ASHRAE committee indicates that the Petitioner began his term as a non-voting member on 
March 20, 2021. As emphasized above, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The evidence does not demonstrate that he 
was a member in the ASHRAE committee when the petition was filed. 
5 
criteria are used to evaluate prospective members and as such, it does not establish whether outstanding 
achievements are required as a condition for membership. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the ASM I Committee is limited 
to no more than 30 members, but he has not explained, and the record does not demonstrate, how the 
number of members admitted to the committee is relevant to an evaluation of whether the membership 
satisfies all requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While it is likely true that many ASM 
individual professional members do not serve on committees, it does not automatically follow that all 
committee members are appointed based on their outstanding achievements, as opposed to their 
specific research interests, educational and professional background, or other factors. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to show that he has participated as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. 
The Petitioner claims that the meets this criterion based on his activities as a member of the ASM 
Committee. 5 5 The initial evidence included the meeting minutes of an October 
2015 committee meeting, attended by the Petitioner, which listed "Nominations" as an agenda item. 
The meeting minutes indicate that there was a call for written nominations for the ' Industrial 
A ward" and that no one made any suggestions during the meeting. In addition, the meeting minutes 
identify a nominee for the A ward" but do not further elaborate or indicate that the nominee or 
his work were or would be reviewed by the committee. The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot 
from the website of ASM International which provides an overview of the ASM's Journal of Phase 
Equilibria & D[ffusion (also referred to as JPED). This page lists the editors and associate editors of 
the journal and includes the names of the members of the Committee.6 
In the request for evidence, the Director acknowledged the submitted meeting minutes but advised the 
Petitioner that the initial evidence did not establish that he, individually or as a member of a panel, 
actually participated in judging of the work of others. 
In response, the Petitioner explained that the ASM I Committee is responsible for 
reviewing nominees for the I I A ward. He submitted the minutes of a 
September 2019 committee meeting at which he was present. The meeting minutes reference the 
5 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also provided evidence related to his committee activities with ASHRAE 
in support of this criterion. As discussed, the record reflects that the Petitioner did not become an ASHRAE committee 
member until after he filed this petition. His committee membership and any associated judging activities cannot establish 
his eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv) as of the date of filing. Therefore, we limit our 
discussion to evidence that pre-dated the filing of the petition. 
6 A description of the key responsibilities of the ASM ______ Committee indicates that it maintains 
"continual surveillance of the technical quality of JPED," including responsibility for advising the editor and staff on 
technical matters. 
6 
A ward" and state: is the recipient of the 2020 award. The committee was reminded 
to be mindful of the February 1 deadline for nominations for the I I Award." The Petitioner also 
provided a copy of an article published in the Journal of Phase Equilibria and Diffusion titled I I 
which announces! I receipt of the 
award. The article briefly discusses the history of the award and indicates that it was first proposed 
by the ASM ______ Committee in 2007. 
The Director determined that none of the submitted evidence corroborated the Petitioner's claim that 
his committee membership or his presence at committee meetings entailed judging the work of others. 
Specifically, the Director observed that the record lacked detailed information regarding the specific 
responsibilities of ASM committee members and meeting attendees with respect 
to evaluating nominations for awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director did not carefully review the evidence, noting that 
the previously submitted documentation demonstrates his participation as a judge in the committee 
panel that reviewed thel I Award candidates. He states that the ASM _______ 
Committee "has the ability to nominate award candidates and review and discuss the nominator [sic] 
during the I J annual meeting." The Petitioner indicates that his presence at an annual 
meeting in which nominations and awards were on the agenda shows that he was part of the committee 
panel during the I I Award nomination process. Finally, he indicates that "the submitted 
documents do not include more confidential nomination process related to the ASM committee panel, 
because the disclosure of those confidential information to USCIS might break some security policy 
between the petitioner and the ASM." 
Upon review, the evidence does not sufficiently document the role of the ASM 
committee in general, or the Petitioner's role specifically, in judging the work of others in connection 
with the Award or any other ASM award program. The committee profile 
the Petitioner provided from ASM International's website contains no specific information regarding 
this committee's role in reviewing the work of award nominees or determining winners of ASM 
awards. 7 Further, the record does not include evidence such as the rules governing the nomination 
and selection process for the I I award for which the Petitioner claims he acted as a 
judge. The record establishes that award nominations and the announcement ofl IA ward winners 
are an agenda item at the Committee's semi-annual meetings. However, it does 
not corroborate the Petitioner's assertion that his presence at such meetings alone serves as sufficient 
evidence that he was part of a committee panel that reviewed the work of nominees and selected the 
winners of the awards, or otherwise performed activities that meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
We have also considered evidence that the ASM committee members are listed 
along with editorial staff in Journal of Phase Equilibria and D[ffusion and note that the Director did 
not specifically address this evidence. The record reflects that the I committee is 
responsible for "surveillance of the technical quality" of the journal and may consult with the editorial 
7 According to ASM's public website (https://www.asmintemational.org/committees-and-councils), it has an "Awards 
Policy Committee" that is "responsible for the awards activity of the Society. It recommends to the Board suitably chosen 
and properly qualified nominees for the various awards and honors of the Society." 
7 
and technical staff. However, the limited evidence submitted does not establish that the committee's 
members are responsible for reviewing, editing, or recommending manuscripts for publication or 
performing other peer review activities that would constitute judging the work of others in the field. 
Overall, based on the evidence submitted, the Petitioner has not established his participation as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or allied field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated he was submitting evidence of his presentation of a 
conference paper at the 2015 ASHRAEI I Conference and evidence of a speaking engagement at 
thel I Trade Show under this criterion. In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this 
evidence, noting that it showed that he displayed his research work at scientific conferences or 
symposia. The Director advised the Petitioner that such venues could not be considered "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" as required by the plain language of the regulation. In the denial, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner provided no additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that he did not pursue his initial claim that his conference 
presentations meet this criterion. However, he asserts that the Director overlooked evidence that he 
participated in an "artistic music showcase." The record includes an online article titled I published by the newsroom of thel I University ____ in May 
2020. The article discusses efforts by alumni and current students, who worked together with medical 
centers to fund, obtain and distribute shipments of personal protective equipment from China during 
the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic. The article indicates that some of the students and 
alumni arranged a virtual concerti I to "bring comfort to the community through 
music." The concert featured! I students, alumni and their families, and the Petitioner is 
named among the students who participated. 
The Petitioner asserts that his participation in the concert demonstrates "his engineering determination 
to build a better world by all his skills and talents with his effort to unify people against the COVID-
19 pandemic." However, even if this concert could be considered an artistic showcase of the 
Petitioner's work, it did not showcase his "work in the field" in which he seeks classification as a 
individual of extraordinary ability. It appears that he intended to connect this artistic endeavor to the 
20201 !Challenge in which he participated. While both projects were initiated in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the concert is unrelated to his field of engineering, his research 
interests, and his professional duties and cannot be deemed to be in his field. Therefore, while we 
have considered evidence of his participation in the virtual concert, he has not 
shown that it satisfies this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iv) or (vii). As noted, he must demonstrate that he meets at least three criteria to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. While the Petitioner claims to meet one 
additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), our determination that he does not any of the criteria 
8 
discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the 
Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation, or his 
appellate claims relating to this criterion. 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 6, 2023 In Re: 28423326 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petlt10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's claimed business ventures in Argentina include car rental franchises, a used car 
dealership, a travel agency, and e-commerce platforms for apparel sellers. The Petitioner entered the 
United States in 2018 as an E-2 treaty investor, to run a sporting goods store. He now manages a real 
estate investment finn in the southeastern United States. 
The Petitioner filed the appeal in late March 2023, submitting a short statement and indicating that he 
would submit a brief within 30 days. More than six months have since elapsed, and the record contains 
no further submission from the Petitioner. We consider the record to be complete as it now stands. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four ofthese criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work ofothers; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
A final merits determination of [the submitted] evidence found that [the Petitioner] did 
not meet the required high level of expertise for the extraordinary ability immigrant 
classification. The [Director's] analysis of the statutory criteria was misaligned with 
the proffered evidence and the statement of law that supported the denial misapplied 
the standard ofreview and conveyed internally inconsistent application ofthe grounds, 
contradicting itself in the text, and applying, what appears to be [a] hybrid standard of 
review, using both the framework for the Field of Science Business [sic], 
interchangeably. 
The Petitioner's appeal statement refers to a final merits determination, but the Director's decision 
included no final merits determination because the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met 
at least three ofthe threshold criteria. The Petitioner claims that the Director incorrectly analyzed the 
evidence but does not elaborate in any detail. Regarding the final part of the quoted passage, the 
2 
Petitioner appears to argue that the Director sometimes categorized the Petitioner's area of claimed 
expertise as "science," and other times as "business." The Petitioner does not, however, explain how 
this claimed "hybrid standard of review" affected the outcome of the petition. The statute and 
regulations do not establish separate standards of review for individuals in business and those in the 
sciences. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner submitted no new evidence in response to a 
request for evidence (RFE). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his "submitted evidence [in response 
to the] Request for Evidence was not properly reviewed." The Petitioner does not identify any specific 
evidence he claims to have submitted in response to the RFE. The RFE response cunently in the 
record consists primarily of a 1 7-page brief. The arguments in that brief warrant consideration, but 
the brief itself is not evidence. See Matter of S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) (stating that 
"statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any 
evidentiary weight"). 1 
Because the Petitioner's RFE response did not include any evidence relating to the eligibility criteria, 
there is no support for the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that he "submitted evidence [in response to 
the] Request for Evidence [that] was not properly reviewed." 
The last substantive paragraph of the Petitioner's appeal statement addresses two of the regulatory 
criteria that he claims to have satisfied: 
Furthermore, the Service committed a material enor that prejudiced the outcome of 
[the petition] by not following Service Policy in the adjudication of his submitted 
evidence. For example, the Service did not properly consider the evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the organizations for which [the Petitioner] held a leading 
or critical role, or credit the media about him, which was in major media, and expressly 
identifies him by name in his capacity for the work being submitted in support of EB I 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, alleges no specific en-ors regarding the other two regulatory criteria, relating 
to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Because the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding those 
criteria, the Petitioner has waived appeal on those issues. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 
658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse 
decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (finding the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner states, without elaboration, that his response to the RFE 
"demonstrated that [he] meets the requirements" of the four claimed criteria. But this is a general 
statement of eligibility, rather than a response to the Director's specific conclusions regarding those 
1 The RFE response letter referred to only one attached exhibit, consisting of copies of the Petitioner's employment 
authorization documents. This evidence does not pertain to the eligibility criteria for extraordinary ability. The Petitioner 
submitted these materials to address a separate issue relating to his nonimmigrant status. 
3 
criteria. See Desravines v. US. Att'y Gen., 343 F. App'x 433,435 (11th Cir. 2009) (indicating that a 
passing reference in the arguments section of a brief without substantive arguments is insufficient to 
raise that ground on appeal). An appellant who does not properly challenge one or more ofthe grounds 
for denial has abandoned any challenge of that ground or grounds. See Sapuppo v. Allstate Floridian 
Ins. Co., 739 F.3d 678, 680 (11th Cir. 2014); United States v. Cooper, No. 17-11548, 2019 WL 
2414405, at *3 (11th Cir. June 10, 2019). 
Below, we will discuss the relevant evidence pe1taining to the two eligibility criteria discussed on appeal. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In the initial filin the Petitioner stated that he "has perfrnmed in a leading or critical role for~I____. 
all organizations ofl distinjished reputation" in the 
Petitioner's native Argentina. ,...___ _, is an online clothing seller; is a car rental company; 
._______.I is an online used car dealership; and.__ ______ __.is a travel agency. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "did not properly consider the evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the organizations for which [the Petitioner] held a leading or critical role." 
The Director, however, did not state any conclusions about the organizations' reputations. Rather, the 
Director determined that "the evidence does not establish that the petitioner's role within these companies 
was leading or critical." Therefore, the Petitioner's statement on appeal does not address the stated basis 
for denial. 
The Director's conclusions revolve around the observation that the Petitioner relied on letters from 
individuals who made assertions of objective fact without substantiating their claims or sufficiently 
establishing their personal knowledge of the matters discussed. The Director raised this concern in the 
RFE and again in the denial, but the Petitioner has not directly addressed this issue. 
Upon review ofthe evidence, we agree with the Director on the broad conclusion that the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof relating to this criterion, although we disagree on some of the specifics. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from individuals identified as the former chief financial officer ofl 
a former sales and marketing manager for I Ia co-founder of.__ ______ ___. and 
a banker who was involved in the purchase ofl IThese individuals describe various 
activities that the Beneficiary undertook at those companies, staring, fol instance, that the Petitioner 
"created an entiryy new I fulfillment process that ... likely saved" and that he took "the lead in 
reintroducing the brand back to Argentina." 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the submitted letters but stated that, without corroboration, the 
letters by themselves do not satisfy the regulatory requirements. The Director asked for "evidence which 
supports the claims and contributions made by the authors ofthe letters." 
In response, the Petitioner asserted that the Director's RFE violated the Petitioner's right to due process 
by incorporating elements of a separate, unclaimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), pertaining to 
original contributions ofmajor significance. We acknowledge that the language taken from that criterion 
4 
does not apply to the criterion under discussion, but this error by the Director does not relieve the 
Petitioner from having to comply with properly applicable requirements. The Director's request for 
corroborating evidence stems from the Petitioner's burden of proof, rather than from the Director's 
mistaken reliance on an inapplicable regulation. 
The Petitioner cited 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l ), which states that evidence ofqualifying experience must take 
the form ofletters from employers. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges the requirement for letters 
from employers, and adds additional considerations: 
[L]etters from persons with personal knowledge ofthe significance ofthe person's leading 
or critical role can be particularly helpful [ when determining a leading or critical role], so 
long as the letters contain detailed and probative info1mation that specifically addresses 
how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department was 
leading or critical. Evidence of experience must consist ofletters from employers. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1 ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. We note that the 
individual attesting to the Beneficiaiy's work with I I does not claim to have been an 
official of that company. Rather, he described himself as a banker who invested in the company as a 
means of"nourishing [his] passive income." As such, the Petitioner has not established that this letter is 
from his employer. 
While the USCIS Policy Manual emphasizes the importance of letters to establish a person's role at a 
given organization or establishment, such statements should be corroborated by documentary evidence 
in the record. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(3). The Petitioner's initial 
submission included no documentary evidence ofhis roles at the companies named above. 
The Petitioner also asserted, in the RFE response, that he already "did submit objective evidence to 
support his claims." The initial submission, however, does not contain such evidence. 
The initial submission included printouts ofmedia articles discussing his various claimed businesses, but 
the Petitioner's name does not appear in any of the articles, and therefore they do not corroborate claims 
regarding the nature of his roles with those companies. The only submitted online material linking the 
Petitioner with I Iis a company profile in Gust, naming four "team" members, including the 
Petitioner. The other three named team members also have listed titles ("CMO, "CFO," and "CTO"); the 
Petitioner is identified only as a co-founder of the company, with no other title and no substantive 
discussion ofhis role there. An article from Infonegocios discusses the company's early years, and names 
the other three team members as thle compafy's founders, but it includes no mention of the Petitioner. 
Likewise, submitted articles about growth in Latin America and a published interview with Ico-founder do not mention the Petitioner. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the submitted letters lacked some important information, and 
that the Petitioner had not submitted any further evidence in response to the RFE. As noted above, the 
Petitioner does not address or overcome this conclusion on appeal. 
5 I 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted consistent evidence to establish his leading or critical roles with 
the named companies, we need not address the separate question of whether those companies have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the Director's conclusions, and has not met his burden ofproof regarding 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted translated printouts of four on line articles, all published in early October 2009 
about a brand of e-cigarette. Each of the four articles quotes the Petitioner and identifies him as the 
marketing director of the cigarette's manufacturer, but contains no fmiher infonnation about him. 
In the RFE, the Director stated: "The material ... only cites, quotes, or references the petitioner. ... The 
articles merely quote the petitioner [ regarding] the product in his official capacity as marketing director. 
There is no discussion ofthe petitioner or his work in the field." 
In response, the Petitioner quoted 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(3): 
[T]he person and the person's work need not be the only subject ofthe material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's 
work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the work may be considered 
material about the person relating to the person's work. 
The Petitioner stated that the articles meet the above requirements, because his "work in the field" 
consisted of "marketing of the product," and, by quoting the Petitioner, the article "mentions [him] in 
connection to the work." 
The Petitioner's assertions are not persuasive. The articles do not include "a substantial discussion of [the 
Petitioner's] work in the field." The "substantial discussion" is about a new brand of e-cigarette and an 
explanation of how "vaping" differs from smoking. Quotations from the Petitioner describing that 
product do not amount to substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work as a marketing director. The 
articles do not contain any information about the Petitioner except his name and title. 
In denying the petition, the Director repeated the conclusion that the articles are not about the Petitioner, 
relating to his work in the field. The Director also identified other shortcomings in the evidence, such as 
lack of author attributions, but we need not explore those other issues here because the issue already 
discussed is enough to show that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director did not "credit the media about him, which was in major 
media, and expressly identifies him by name in his capacity for the work being submitted in support of 
EBI eligibility." We have already explained why the articles are not about the Petitioner. 
6 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that the articles relate to his "work in the field for which 
classification is sought" as the regulations require. The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability as an "entrepreneur," who intends to run a real estate equity firm. The Petitioner has 
not established, or claimed, that he worked for the e-cigarette company as an entrepreneur. Rather, the 
articles describe him as the company's "marketing director." 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof to satisfy the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has waived appeal on the other two claimed criteria, relating to 
remuneration and judging. Furthermore, the above conclusions relating to two of the claimed four 
criteria are sufficient to show that the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve these issues. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work at a level that indicates the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We have already discussed how the media articles naming the Petitioner do not refer to him as an 
entrepreneur. Furthermore, those articles all date from a two-day period in October 2009, more than 
12 years before he filed the petition. Therefore, they do not demonstrate sustained media attention. 
The Petitioner also claims high salary or remuneration, but he has not submitted any evidence that 
documents his salary, remuneration, or equity holdings from any source. He submitted articles about 
the sale of a company he claims to have co-founded, but those articles do not indicate that he received 
any of the proceeds from the sale. The letters in the record are from individuals who claim to have 
worked directly with the Petitioner, and therefore are not direct evidence of any broader recognition 
consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22395252 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a software development entrepreneur, as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states: 
[The Beneficiary] is a well-known, widely respected, and exceedingly accomplished 
Entrepreneur who specializes in I He also holds the distinction of 
being one of the top 1001 I entrepreneurs inLJ and has had enormous success in 
the field of startup innovation technology. As Founder and Chairmanofthd I I I [ of] Companies, [the Beneficiary] has developed numerous highly successful 
startups in the areas ofinformation technology, enterprise software] and 
more. Notably, the small I I startup he founded more than 2 decades 
ago,I I became a leading, nationally lauded company in the I I 
space. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown thatthe Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must instead submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have submitted 
evidence to satisfy six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the 
work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Beneficiary also performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation, thereby satisfying the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that the evidence satisfies this third criterion. 
The Benefici is chairman and chief executive officer ofl I and "is also the board chairman 
of each of subsidiar com anies." The Beneficiary is also a cofounder and member of 
the board of trustees for __________ The Director agreed that these capacities 
constitute leading or critical roles. The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner had not 
2 
established thatl and have distinguished reputations, defined 
as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person. "1 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not fully consider record evidence of the reputations 
of these organizations. We agree. Published articles in the record refer to I asl I I land indicate that it one ofits flagship products has" a market 
share." This evidence, uncontradicted in the record, is sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the 
evidence that I has a distinguished reputation. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "while these organizations may enjoy some local popularity in 
Iran, the record does not contain evidence of their eminence, distinction, or excellence in the field as a 
whole." This conclusion, however, imposes a requirement that the organizations must have a 
distinguished reputation at an international level. The statute and regulations, however, referto "national 
or international acclaim"; a distinguished reputation in one country is sufficient within this framework. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), "A petition for an alien of extraordinary ability must be accompanied by 
evidence that the alien has sustained national or international acclaim and that his or her achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise." 
Because theevidenceaboutl is sufficientto meetthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we need not explore, here, the question ofwhethe __________ also has a distinguished 
reputation. 
If the Director had not reached an erroneous conclusion about the distinguished reputation ofl I 
then the Director would have proceeded to a final merits determination to weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if the Beneficiary's successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
Therefore, we will remand the matter, so that the Director may undertake the final merits determination 
that would have ensued if not for the Director's error. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited in 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, variously identified as a journalist and "patron of the arts," seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. The Petitioner asserts that the Director applied too strict a standard of proof. 
More broadly, the Petitioner disputes case law relating to the adjudication of extraordinary ability 
petitions. 1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 As an administrative appellate body, we have no authority to overrule or disregard binding judicial case law. In any 
event, the arguments disputing the case law appear to have been copied, without attribution , from an amicus curiae brief 
prepared by the American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) in support of an unrelated petition. (The brief raises 
several points that are not relevant to this proceeding, and the phrase "AILA reiterates its concern ... " appears on page 
I 6 of the Petitioner 's brief.) The AILA amicus brief is available online at https://www.uscis.gov /sites/default/files/ 
USCIS/ About%20Us /Directorates%20and%20Program%20Offices / AAO/Brief%20 I .PDF (last visited Sept. 25, 2019). 
In our appellate decision relating to that other petition, we considered and rebutted the arguments in the amicus brief. 
Because these arguments are not specific to the case now before us, we will not revisit our responses here. 
Matter of O-M-C-
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that she "founded th to honor distinguished writers, 
poets and artists and ... would like to bring the to ... the United States." 
The Petitioner did not submit any evidence to show that the.__ _________ _.( also called 
thel I provided her with paid employment. Rather, the Petitioner has worked primarily 
as a journalist from 1987 to 2013, and "produced two shows on Broadway" in 2012 and 2014. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others and performing in 
2 
Matter of O-M-C-
a leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, 
discussed below. 
We note that the Petitioner has submitted evidence relating to a variety of pursuits, such as journalism, 
stage production, and organizing awards ceremonies, without identifying a field encompassing these 
activities in which she seeks to establish her extraordinary ability. Accordingly, she has not 
demonstrated that all of the submitted evidence relates to the field in which classification is sought. 
Regardless, upon review, the record does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. We begin by discussing the two criteria that the Director granted. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. The regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." In general, a leading role is 
evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which the alien was responsible for the success 
or standing of the organization or establishment. The evidence of record does not establish that the 
Petitioner has met the requirements according to the plain language of this criterion. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence under this criterion, such as press passes, established her employment as 
a journalist witLJ an Italian public broadcasting company. The Petitioner did not document her role 
there in detail except to indicate that she was based inl I; her former colleagues attested that the 
Petitioner covered a range of stories and events in the United States. The role of a network journalist with 
a network is not automatically leading or critical; we note the Petitioner's assertion that "1600 journalist[ s] 
work atc=Jfull time." One colleague claimed that the Petitioner "organize[ d] ... the r ~ 
correspondent's office," but this individual is a newspaper reporter who did not establish direct 
knowledge of the events described. As discussed further below, the Petitioner cited salary figures relating 
to news anchors, but the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner was an anchor rather than a 
correspondent. 
The Petitioner later submitted letters from colleagues, indicating that she served as director of the I I School of Journalism in I I Italy. The letters contain apparent inconsistencies. One 
colleague indicated that the Petitioner became the director of the school after serving on juries to select 
students, whereas another colleague asserted that the Petitioner actually founded the school. The record 
contains no documentary evidence about the school (which the Petitioner did not mention at all in her 
initial submission) or the Petitioner's role there. 
Two of the writers stated that they work at the I I School of Journalism atl !University in I I but they did not state that ~ School and the I I School of Journalism are the same 
institution. The president of the~hool specifically used both names in his letter, naming the I I School in his own credentials and using the name 'l I Schoo\.-fil..1illpnalism" when 
discussing the Beneficiary's work. Another writer, identified as the manager of L_J Merchandising 
and Faculty Restaurant, stated "I work as a manager at th~niversity," and that "I also worked as 
the I lat the I I School of Journalism ... in the years 1992 to 1996." The record 
3 
Matter of O-M-C-
contains no documentary evidence from the ~I --~I School of Journalism to confirm or clarify the 
nature of the Beneficiary's employment there. 
Given the vague and inconsistent claims, coupled with a lack of verifiable, documentary evidence, we 
cannot conclude that the Petitioner has met her burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. We disagree, for the 
reasons outlined below. 
Initially, the Petitioner cited her co-creation of the I I under this criterion, but did not explain 
how this showed her participation as a judge of the work of others. The record is ambiguous as to whether 
the Petitioner has participated as one of the judges who choose award recipients. Furthermore, the awards 
go to "writers, poets and artists." The Petitioner did not claim to have worked in those fields, or explain 
how they are allied to her own field( s) of employment. 
In a supplemental submission, the Petitioner indicated that she had participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the field ofjoumalism. The Petitioner submitted three letters indicating that she served on a jury 
that selected students to attend the I !School ofJournalism. As noted above, the letters are vague 
and inconsistent, and the record contains no documentary evidence from the I I School of 
Journalism, an omission of particular concern when we consider that the Petitioner initially did not 
mention the school at all. 
The Petitioner also submitted a translated copy of an article from an unidentified publication, indicating 
that the Petitioner sat on a jury to decide the winner of an award for "articles, interventions or essays on 
the topic 'Constitutional reforms: rules to be retained."' The article indicates that "[t]he award ceremony 
was held on 3/24/97," but the dateline of the article is "May 1996." The mismatched dates also appear in 
the Italian-language original, from no identified source other than an email message from the Petitioner. 
The inconsistencies and deficiencies in the Petitioner's new evidence diminish their evidentiary weight. 
See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner's evidence ofjudging 
consists solely of inconsistent letters and an article of unknown origin, we find that the Petitioner has not 
submitted enough evidence to meet its burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met the additional criteria discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
4 
Matter of O-M-C-
In order to demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show 
that the association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to 
membership. Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum 
education or experience, standardized test scores, grade point average, recommendations by colleagues 
or current members, or payment of dues do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. Further, the overall prestige of a given association is not determinative; the 
issue here is membership requirements rather than the association's overall reputation. 
The Petitioner cited the following as qualifying memberships: 
• A doctorate in Architecture from the University ofl I 
• An assistant professorship in the department of Architecture atc=]University 
• Listings in the Italian Register of Professional Architects and the Italian Register of Professional 
Journalists 
Most of the above information relates to architecture, but the record does not indicate that the Petitioner 
seeks classification in that field, or that she intends to work as an architect. Also, the Petitioner did not 
explain how a university degree and a faculty position constitute membership in associations, or establish 
the role that recognized national or international experts play in the degree-granting and hiring processes. 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not establish the requirements for listing in the two Italian Registers, or show 
that the listed individuals collectively comprise an association. 
The Petitioner submitted an unsigned letter, attributed to a former dean of the University o~ I, listing 
some of the Petitioner's past achievements and expressing the opinion that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
alien of extraordinary ability "base[ d] on her successful career and distinguished accomplishments." The 
Petitioner cited this letter as evidence of a qualifying membership, but the letter does not mention 
membership in any association. 
The Petitioner later stated that her former em lo erO has a distinguished reputation, and she asserted 
without evidence thatl I "offi'I""'--.........,,-----' is the most prestigious." The Petitioner did not submit 
any evidence that employment by amounts to membership in an association, or that it is contingent 
on outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of 
journalism. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that her involvement with the I I Foundation is, itself, a 
qualifying membership. The Petitioner, however, co-founded the Foundation. The Petitioner has not 
shown that her ability to do so required nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge her 
achievements as outstanding; she has not identified those achievements or the experts who judged them 
to be outstanding. 
The Petitioner also asserts that "there are professional associations with different levels of membership 
and higher levels of membership may satisfy this evidentiary criterion." This is a general statement, and 
the Petitioner has not shown that it relates to any of her claimed memberships. 
The Petitioner has not met the plain language of this criterion. 
5 
Matter of O-M-C-
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Silverman 
v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 
F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner contended that her role in co-creating the I ~ is an original artistic contribution 
of major significance in the field, and that the award is "the Italian equivalent of the Nobel Prize in 
Literature." 
The Petitioner submitted letters from, and background information about, several I lreci}ients. 
For example,! I former Poet Laureate of the United States, stated: "The I as an 
award and as an experience, is one of the two or three most significant forms of recognition I have 
received." I I cited "[t]he international nature of the prize, the elegance of the presentation, the 
generous reception inc=] [ and] the sculptural work of art that comes with the prize." These factors do 
not establish the significance of the prize itself. 
Another former Poet Laureate) I stated that the I k is "possibly Italy's most prestigious 
international literary honor," but did not elaborate on that assertion. 
The reputation of these writers is not in dispute in this proceeding, but their own acclaim does not establish 
the significance of th~ I It is significant that the Petitioner has been able to locate and submit 
high-quality, objective documentation about these award winners, but has not provided evidence of a 
similar caliber relatin to the or the Petitioner's creation thereof. The Petitioner has chosen 
to compare the ~---~to the Nobel Prize, but has not shown that the two prizes enjoy comparable 
prestige or receive comparable attention, for example in news coverage. The coverage documented in 
the record consists primarily of press releases from the winners' employers and publishers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two letters from individuals who are involved with the Nobel Prize for 
Literature.~--------~ of the Uni1ersity o1 I I stated that he is "in continuous 
contact with the jury of this Prize," and that "[t]he Academy in its work for choosing the laureates 
[ of] the Nobel Prize in Literature has taken account of the decisions of the I IF oundation," 
and that the Academy and the Foundation have been in "direct cooperation ... [since] 2014." The 
Petitioner did not describe the nature of this cooperation, submit documentation of any formal agreement, 
or show how many other organizations cooperate with the Academy in this way or how the Academy 
selects those organizations. 
I la member ofthel I Academy and Nobel Committee for Literature, stated: "The I , lhas an important place in contemporary culture. It has been awarded to several writers who 
were later to receive the literary Nobel Prize .... As a winner of thel I myself: I also have 
personal knowledge of this prize." 
6 
Matter of O-M-C-
The quoted letters demonstrate that some experts in the field are familiar with the I I But this 
familiarity does not establish that the Petitioner's contributions have been of major significance in the 
field. Recognition does not necessarily equate to major significance in the field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained how the creation of the is an original 
contribution. The Petitioner identified no characteristic of the,__ ___ ___,that distinguishes them from 
other literary prizes and awards. The record does not rule out the originality of the I I but the 
burden is on the Petitioner to make that case and submit appropriate corroborating evidence. 
Beyond thel l Attorney! I initially identified as Italy's Honorary Consul for 
the State ofl I stated that the Petitioner's "contribution is a bridge to the Italian and American 
cultures," and that the Petitioner "has donated her time by actinJ as a liaison between my office and Italian 
Diplomats ... in the United States," primarily inl _. did not ex lain the larger 
significance of the Petitioner's efforts in this regard. In later correspondence,,__ ___ ~acknowledged 
that he had represented the Petitioner in a personal injury case. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field [ emphasis 
added]." Without additional, specific evidence showing that the Petitioner's work has been unusually 
influential, widely applied throughout her field, or has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of 
major significance, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
There are two other criteria that the Petitioner previously claimed to meet, but does not defend on appeal. 
Therefore, these issues are abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). We 
will briefly note the Petitioner's claims under these two criteria. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserted that she meets this criterion because she produced two plays inl I one in 
2012 and the other in 2014. The Petitioner does not claim to have met any other regulatory c;riteria 
through her work as a theatrical producer, and the Petitioner has not explained how that work relates 
either to her career in journalism or to her endeavors relating to the I I 
The appellate brief discusses display, but only in the context of the "comparable evidence" clause at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), asserting for instance that "scholars and academics 'display' their work" at 
academic conferences. The Petitioner had not previously invoked the "comparable evidence" clause, 
and does not discuss the specifics of this case in discussing the issue. The Petitioner discusses the 
issue only in the context of disputing Kazarian and related case law. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
7 
Matter of O-M-C-
The Petitioner stated that the "average News Anchor Salary in New York" is "116,923 in 2018 dollars," 
and that her "[t]otal gross annual pay in 2000 was $146,530." The Petitioner contended: "In today's 
dollars, the value of the contract would be significantly higher." 
Supporting documents show that, while the average news anchor salary in New York was $116,923 in 
2018, the range of salaries was very broad. The 90th percentile was $427,116, meaning that one anchor 
in ten earned more than that amount. The quoted figure of $146,530, while above average, is not 
significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
A larger issue, however, is that the Petitioner did not accurately describe her own compensation. A 
translated letter fromc=J in Italy, from May 2000, specified the Petitioner's expected "[t]otal gross 
annual pay" not as US $146,530, but as 146,530,160 Italian lira. The same document states that, "[b]y 
converting into foreign currency," the Petitioner's "[y]early pay in US dollars" would be $59,140.70. The 
Petitioner did not show that this amount was significantly high for news anchors in New York in 2000. 
The Petitioner also did not submit any other documentary evidence relating to her compensation. 
The Petitioner does not revisit this issue on appeal, and we consider the claim to be abandoned. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought.2 For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofO-M-C-, ID# 5108163 (AAO Oct. 8, 2019) 
2 As the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act we need not 
address whether she is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). 
However, we briefly note that record raises questions in this regard. The Petitioner stated that she "has been here on an E-2 
visa as a manager for several companies that have invested $26,000,000 ine:=Jandl land ... also owns commercial 
real estate inl lthat she manages." The Petitioner did not identify the companies or establish that they have any relation 
to the I !or her journalism career. The Petitioner also stated that she "was unable to sustain her remarkable 
contributions to the arts or journalism ... because of a serious accident" in 2015. The attorney who represented her after the 
accident stated that the Petitioner "strives every day to get back to her work as a journalist, producer and entrepreneur." This 
language indicates that it is still uncertain that the Petitioner will be able to resume her past work. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18109021 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in the field of robotics, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter of Chawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the 
University o~ I where she was also employed as a research associate. 1 The Petitioner has 
a master of science in robotics from University, a master of engineering in computer 
science from.__ _____ ---r-----.----------=...---- ....... and a bachelor's degree in computer 
science and mathematics fro .___ _ _,The record reflects that she is the founder and CEO ofl I 
.__ _ _.la U.S. company which intends to develop and market an .__ ________ __.reliant on 
robotics and artificial intelligence technologies. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria by 
providing evidence that she has participated as a judge of the work of others in her field and by 
authoring scholarly articles in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The 
record supports this determination, as the Petitioner has documented her service as a judge based on 
her peer review of manuscripts for scientific journals and conferences in her field. She has also 
published her scholarly work in a journal (IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters) and in international 
conferences in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she has made 
original scientific contributions of major significance in her field and therefore meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).2 After reviewing all the evidence submitted, we conclude that the record 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner received her Ph.D. from the University ofl I in August 2020. 
2 Although the Petitioner previously claimed to meet three additional evidentiary criteria, she does not contest the 
Director's determination that she did not satisfy the criteria related to lesser nationally and internationally recognized 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), display of her work a1i artistic exhibitions and showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
and performance in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation at 8 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This criterion calls for evidence of a petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that their contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion bas,..,.._"""""'.......,, ......... """'-'.........,"""""'"'-'-'-'U....,,.:.LL- ___ .......,.·ncorporated 
into an autonomous stem called , which was 
developed at the University of Robotics Lab. Specifically, the Petitioner 
explains that she contributed to tion and mani ulation com onents 
which allow the 
L--------------------...r----i,. _______ _J The Petitioner 
maintains that the significance of her contribution to th,__ _ _.project has been widely recognized in 
the field, as evidenced by her publication of two articles and two datasets related to the project, 
citations to and downloads of these publications and data, media attention received by the project, and 
letters from experts in her field. She asserts that this evidence, considered in its totality, is sufficient 
to establish the major significance of her scientific contribution. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider evidence of "massive downloads" of two 
datasets related to theO project that are available on th website. 
S ecificall , she states that her team at Universit of ublished two datasets: (1) "A 
which has been ~------------- ........ ------------------downloaded 13,644 times; and (2) ~---------------~which has been 
downloaded 37,730 times. The Petitioner explains that the datasets can be used by other researchers 
to understand ho~ lso that they can recreate those actions with 
robots. She states that the only "logical reason" for her datasets to have over 50,000 downloads is 
because her "peers in this field have widely recognized her original findings and the importance of her 
original findings, which can ... help them to do their own [research]." 
The Petitioner states that the two datasets have achieved a "massive" number of downloads but the 
record does not contain comparative information regarding downloads for other datasets in the same 
field. Rather, she asserts that 50,000 is a large number without placing that number in context. Without 
supporting evidence to provide such context, she has not supported her claim that the total number of 
downloads establishes the major significance of the data she collected through her research on the 
,___ _ _.I project. 
Further, the total number of downloads for a given dataset does not provide insight into how many 
individual researchers have downloaded the Petitioner's data. For exam le, the l I 
.__--.-----~--------,,-------,__ ___ __,.-,----' has been downloaded 
over 13,000 times since being published o ~------~ in 2019. However, this dataset includes 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We consider these issues to be waived and will not further discuss these criteria. See Matter 
of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision, that issue is waived). 
3 
nearly 2500 files and the total number of downloads represents the sum of downloads for each file; it 
does not indicate that 13,000 researchers have downloaded the complete dataset. The Petitioner 
provided download numbers for ten individual files within the dataset showing that they were each 
downloaded between 7 and 15 times. Given the total number of files (2493) and total number of 
downloads (13,644), the average number of downloads per file would fall between 5 and 6 downloads. 
The Petitioner's other dataset, published o~ I in 2018, includes 479 files that have 
been downloaded a total of 37,730 times, or an average of approximately 79 downloads per file. 
In addition, a download count does not tell us whether or how the Petitioner's datasets have been used 
in subsequent research studies. If such downloads rarely result in citations, then the download count 
does not appear to correlate direct! to the impact or influence of the Petitioner's research in the field. 
Onl one of the two datasets (the 2018 dataset titled .__ ______ ___. 
.__ ________ ___. is included on the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile. Although the 
Petitioner emphasizes that it has over 37,000 downloads, the record reflects that this dataset had been 
cited only three times, a number which appears to include self-citations by the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the number of downloads and suggests that it would be unusual 
for a researcher to cite to a dataset such as those she published o~ l She maintains 
that "[p ]eople who downloaded them are scientific researchers in this specific field and they 
downloaded them not casually for fun, but seriously with the purpose for their research[]." At the 
same time, she states that the data contained in the datasets "is not in ordinary English words which is 
not practically cited as the normal citation." Her statements imply that researchers have downloaded 
and relied on her data for their own research without citing it. However, the information provided 
from! I indicates that the website automatically generates a full citation for every 
uploaded dataset for use by researchers, to ensure that those who publish the datasets are credited for 
their work when others rely on it. The record does not adequately support the Petitioner's claims that 
the downloads of her dataset should be given greater evidentiary weight than citations to those datasets. 
The Petitioner also em 
research related to th hasizes that she used the datasets discussed above to publish and present her 
ro · ect. She rovided evidence that her paper 
was published in 
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters in 2019 and that she resented!~ --------~I 
~---~-------~---------------~ at the 2019 International 
Symposium on Robotics Research (ISRR). This evidence verifies that the Petitioner has shared her 
research associated with thel lsystem. Although funded and published work 
may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the reaction from the field upon the 
dissemination of her work confirms that her research rises to the level of a "contribution of major 
significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 3 Here, the Petitioner provided her Google 
Scholar profile indicating that the two articles referenced above had been cited 21 times and 5 times, 
respectively. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual) (stating that "[p]eer-reviewed 
presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index which cite the alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the alien's 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's 
published or presented work. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the number of 
citations received by her published work associated with th~ !project is commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance. In fact, referring to the citations received by her article in IEEE 
Robotics and Automation Letters, she states on appeal that the number of citations it received, if 
considered alone, "is not impressive." She asserts that these citations should be considered along with 
evidence that the corresponding dataset published on] I was downloaded over 13,000 
times, emphasizing that the combination of the citations and downloads is "very convincing" evidence 
of the significance of her research contribution. However, as discussed above, the Petitioner has not 
established that her datasets related to th~ project have been widely cited or that the downloads 
signify widespread notice or attention in her field commensurate with major significance. Although 
evidence related to the Petitioner's citations indicates that her research has received some attention 
from the field, she did not establish that the citations demonstrate that her work has been widely 
discussed or relied on by other researchers, that the work has been particularly influential or impactful, 
or that it is otherwise regarded as a contribution of major significance in her field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that several media outlets reported on the University of 
I Is first demonstration of the~-------~ robot when the IEEE Robotics and 
Automation article was published in 2019. The Petitioner provided copies of online articles from BBC, 
Reuters, Science Daily, GeekWire, Digital Trends, New Atlas, Fast Company, and Interesting 
En ineerin . An article about the ro·ect was also featured on the website of the NIH'sl I 
.__ ______________________ __, which provided project funding. The 
articles convey that ... ""'th""e::.er..:::e_,a::.er..:::e_,a=.tc===~ one million Americans with injuries or disabilities that 
revent them from and note that the team at Universit of has 
,__ _ ___,as a first step in developing an.__ __________ ~ robot. 
The articles describe the engineering challenges presented by~ project, describe how the 
research team approached those challenges, and explain how th~t works. While the articles 
comment on the potential of the technology, the evidence does not indicate that the algorithms 
developed by the Petitioner and incorporated into the I J or thel bbot itself: have 
already had a major impact in the robotics field or have resulted in a technology that is already being 
used by the population it intends to serve. 
For exam le the BBC article re orts that the ro · ect' s researchers 
The 
article published by Fast Company discusses several limitations of the robot and possible future 
improvements, noting that "the [University of I I team has no immediate plans for 
commercialization." The Geek Wire article refers tcC:J as "an earl -sta e ro · ect" and reports that 
Overall, the 
submitted media articles recognize the originality and potential of the research and two of them 
mention thatD is more advanced than an existing! I robot already on the market. 
However, they do not present! I as a development that has already been shown to have a 
demonstrable impact in the field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
5 
The Petitioner has also submitted several expert opinion letters that discuss her contributions to the I !project at University o~ f Although the authors comment on the originality of this 
research and the publication and presentation of this work, they do not sufficiently articulate how the 
Petitioner's research and findings havl already Impacted on influenced the field in a si nificant way. 
'----------~ who runs the Robotics Lab at Universit of and served 
as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor, acknowledges her contributions to the.__ _________ ~ 
s stem notin her critical role in the team's develo ment of "a software stack for a mobile 
'He '----------------------------------------' states that the project "has received much attention ... in the research community," but does not 
further elaborate on the influence or impact of the Petitioner's contributions. 
Other letters comment on the potential future applications of the Petitioner's work without detai
1lingl 
how it has already impacted further research in the field or been widely implemented in the field. 
'------.----.-~a professor of computer science who previously served as the Petitioner's 
advisor at L----,--....1...::u.u.Ju..u.JCI.LU""""'"---'J.>.i.L---'-'...,_,,_.......,.u.........._......_.i.lJJ........,,___..,.....,. ........... ......,. __ ....u.....,_._.,1.1.L...--'-'.....,_....LLl...>..LJw.>.L..-,practi cal 
applications i and will 
help "millions of Americans in need o .__ _____ ....,_ ________ __,services." I ~' a mechanical engineering professor at mentions the two datasets and two p~u_b_l_i-ca-t-io_n_s__, 
associated with the Petitioner's research, and states that her work one=) and her expertise inl I 
robotic systems has "unlimited potential applications in improving the lives of many disabled 
Americans, which certainly has substantial merit and national importance." I I an 
electrical and computer engineering professor at I I University, similarly discusses the 
Petitioner's published work related to thel I project and notes its "importance to thel I 
robotics field iven its numerous a lications which can be designed to improve the quality of life for 
millions of individuals." Finally,! I a professor 
a .__ _____ __,University, states that the Petitioner has made "invaluable breakthroughs" that will 
"help millions of Americans who require! I services." 
While several of the letters emphasize the "substantial merit and national importance" of the field of I !robotics, they do not explain with specificity how the Petitioner's individual contributions to 
this field rise to the level of major significance. The submitted letters emphasize the potential of the 
Petitioner's research, the impact it may have in the future, and the merits of developing artificial 
intelligence and robotics technology for the purpose of assisting persons with disabilities with daily 
tasks. They do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact her research has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 
The reference letters and other evidence in the record show that the Petitioner's work has added to the 
general pool of knowledge and has resulted in incremental advancements in the field, as would be 
expected of any original research. However, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify her 
4 We have addressed the expert letters that discuss the Petitioner's work on the0 project at University ofl 0 
because this research forms the basis of her claim that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, we 
have reviewed and considered all expert opinion letters provided in support of the petition. 
5 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
original contribution but to also demonstrate why it is considered to be of major significance in the 
field. Here, after reviewing the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, both individually and 
collectively, we conclude that she has not established that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, upon a review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments to date is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF D-E-H-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 9, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3), 
which requires documentation of a one-time achievement , or evidence that meets at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider. The Director dismissed the motion, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that 
the denial was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
We will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. ANALYSIS 
Although the Petitioner 's appellate brief primarily addresses the Director's initial denial decision, we 
emphasize that the Petitioner did not appeal the denial order itself, but rather the Director's subsequent 
finding that its combined motion did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or motion to 
reconsider. Therefore , the merits of the denial decision, and of the underlying petition, are not before 
us. The only issue before us is whether the Director properly found that the combined motion did not 
meet applicable requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. A motion that does not 
meet applicable requirements must be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) . 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding ; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
Matter of D-E-H-S-
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Although the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider, the decision dismissing the motion did not cite to the regulatory requirements for filing 
a motion to reopen, or otherwise address the motion to reopen or why it was insufficient to meet those 
requirements. Therefore, we find that the Director did not adjudicate the motion to reopen. 
With respect to the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we note that the Director addressed only one of 
several legal arguments made in the 26-page brief submitted in support of the motion. Specifically, 
the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's reliance on Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 
WL 4711885 at 7-8 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) in support of its claim that his awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized awards given for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Specifically, the Petitioner claimed that the Director incorrectly determined that he was not "officially 
credited" for a nationally recognized award and pointed to evidence showing that he had received an 
individual award certificate along with the award statuette awarded to his band at the I I I I in Venezuela. The Director did not acknowledge this claim and instead reached a 
conclusion that "the Circuit Court's [sic] decision apparently supports the AAO decision [sic] with 
regard to plaintiff not being the direct recipient of the awards in his name for his work as lead guitarist." 
Further, in its brief on motion, the Petitioner alleged several errors in the Director's application of the 
regulatory criteria to the facts presented and in the Director's interpretation of the plain language of 
those criteria. The Director did not address these arguments, and instead summarily concluded that 
the motion did not "establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the 
time of the initial decision." An officer must fully explain the reasons for denial in order to allow the 
petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Therefore, because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen 
or fully addressed the merits of the motion to reconsider, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to 
consider the Petitioner's arguments in that motion. The Director must at least address the Petitioner's 
claims and any new facts, and explain why they are deficient to overcome the denial of the petition. 
II. CONCLUSION 
As the Director's decision did not address the Petitioner's motion to reopen or sufficiently address the 
merits of the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we will remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter of D-E-H-S-, ID# 5189408 (AAO Oct. 9, 2019) 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 9, 2024 In Re: 33254396 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in energy efficiency. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and did not show his intent to continue to work in his area 
of expertise in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for five. 1 For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets at least three categories of evidence. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought.2 USCIS then determines whether the 
publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media 
publication.3 
The Petitioner argues that his submission oftwo articles published in Energy Saving, and ubsequently 
posted on the publication's website abok.ru, qualifies for this criterion. The 12023 article 
reflects published material about the Petitioner relating to his work with his company,! 
1 Issues and prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330, 336 
n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
2 I 
4 However, the Petitioner did not establish that Energy Saving or abok.ru 
constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 5 
The Petitioner provided a letter from A-G-Z-, general director ofI I who indicated that 
Energy Saving is "[a] professional industry journal whose audience consists of two categories: 
consumers and manufacturers of energy-saving equipment and technologies," and "[t]he circulation 
of the journal is 13,000 copies." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not define a 
"professional publication." However, the term "profession" shall include shall include but not be 
limited to architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers in elementary or secondary 
schools, colleges, academics, or seminaries. See section 10l(a)(32) of the Act. Moreover, 
"profession" means one of the occupations listed in section 10l(a)(32) of the Act, as well as any 
occupation for which a United States baccalaureate degree or its foreign equivalent is the minimum 
requirement for entry in the occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not show 
that Energy Saving 's audience is geared more towards professionals in the field rather than "consumers 
and manufactures." 
Furthermore, although A-G-Z-claimed Energy Saving is a professional industry journal, the letter 
does not contain sufficient information showing the professional status ofEnergy Saving. In fact, the 
letter discusses a wide range topics of "production, supply, installation, commissioning of energy and 
resource-saving equipment, as well as progressive energy-saving solutions and all products related to 
the energy saving process," indicating more of a trade publication rather than a professional 
publication. Without further evidence, the Petitioner has not shown the professional standing of 
Energy Saving. 
In addition, A-G-Z-claimed that Energy Saving 's circulation reached 13,000. However, the Petitioner 
did not provide further evidence or information demonstrating the significance or relevance of this 
figure to establish that Energy Saving represents a major trade publication or other major medium. 
Finally, the Petitioner did not offer any supporting evidence or traffic data relating to abok.ru to show 
the major standing of the website. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 6 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 7 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
4 The June 2023 article does not represent published material about the Petitioner rather than coverage about 
5 See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(1) (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and 
major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other 
major media). 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
7 Id. 
3 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 8 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues: 
I have submitted vast and numerous evidence that stress out that I have original 
scientific and business-related contributions of major significance in the field that [sic] 
been very influential and field-changing, and that have gathered [sic] both national and 
international acclaim among industry experts, market peers and various consumers. It 
is reinforced not only by a plethora of letters and testimonials, but as well by contracts 
that underline incredible trust from customers -leaders in their industrial leaders when 
handling us what we do the best. My track record in the field has been referenced by 
experts as authoritative, has received notice from others indicating "major significance 
level" in the overall field of energy efficiency. 
The evidence referenced by the Petitioner, such as letters, testimonials, and contracts, indicates the 
Petitioner's involvement in conducting business between I land other companies. However, 
the evidence does not show that such involvement rises to a level of major significance in the field. 
The significance of the Petitioner's contributions has been limited to the projects in whichl I 
conducted business rather than impacting or influencing the overall field in a major way. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). For instance, "[y]]our 
expertise in the field of lightning design and supply provided invaluable for this project of significant 
complexity" (I-I-K-letter); "[y]our expertise has been pivotal in the selection and implementation of 
our products for several high-profile projects" (A-V-U- letter); and "[t]he methodology pioneered by 
[the Petitioner] and I I in implementing lighting system projects has been a key factor in 
our success" (A-S-F-letter). 9 Although the letters praise the projects in which they worked with the 
Petitioner andl Ithey not further elaborate and explain how those engagements translated 
into contributions of major significance in the field. 10 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance. 11 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 12 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
8 Id. 
9 Although we discuss a sampling of letters and testimonials, we have reviewed and considered each one in the record. 
10 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's 
original work constitutes major, significant contributions in the field). 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
12 Id. 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The petitioner must establish performance in a leading or critical role for an organization, 
establishment, or division or department of an organization or establishment, and the petitioner must 
demonstrate whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which the 
person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 13 
The Petitioner provided evidence showing that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I !enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "[n ]umerous appreciation letters from experts in the fields, 
customers, peers, government agencies, suppliers and many other references, support [the] 
distinguished reputation ofI I[]." 
Similar to the issues regarding the letters discussed under the original contributions criterion, the 
record reflects the letters lack specific, detailed information demonstrating the distinguished reputation 
ofI I Instead, the letters briefly indicate or repeat the regulatory language and claim that I I has a distinguished reputation without explaining, elaborating, or supporting their 
assertions. For instance, I I [] distinguishes itself by its unique approach, competing 
favorably with some of the world's most renowned companies such as Philips and iGuzzini 
Illuminazione" (D-G-Z-letter), and I I[] has distinguished itself as a leader in the industry, 
not only through the success of its projects but also through its commitment to innovation and 
excellence" (A-S-F-letter). Here, the letters do not elaborate and show how it has competed against 
other energy companies or how the success of its projects has distinguished itself as a leader. Without 
further evidence or corroborating documentation, the Petitioner has not shown the distinguished 
reputation ofI I 
Furthermore, for the first time on appeal, the Petitioner asserts eligibility and submits new evidence 
for this criterion based on his role with _______ Because the Petitioner was put on 
notice and given a reasonable opportunity to claim eligibility and provide this evidence, we will not 
consider this claim and documentation for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 1) 
(requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 
764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner 
was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial"). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he satisfies this criterion. 
13 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies three categories of evidence. Although the Petitioner also 
argues eligibility for the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the scholarly articles 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach these additional grounds because the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
also need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 14 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 15 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n. 7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicants do not otherwise meet their burden ofproot). 
15 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider the Director's determination on whether the Petitioner intends to continue to work in his area of expertise under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. See Bagamasbad, 429 at 25-6-26; see also 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 10, 2024 In Re: 34549994 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish she satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only the artistic display 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains she meets six additional 
evidentiary categories. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner presented a December 2010 certificate stating that she received a "Best Debut by 
Popular Choice" award at the 6th Music Awards. In his first letter of support,I I Sales Executive atl Iindicated that "[t]his accolade, awarded for [the 
Petitioner's ca tivating rendition of from her second album 
stands as a testament to her extraordinary talent and steadfast dedication." In his 
second letter of support, ______ stated: "Criteria for selecting the winner include vocal 
ability, artistic innovation, public engagement and overall impact on the music industry. The selection 
is meticulously carried out by an esteemed panel of jury members, composed of veteran musicians, 
music producers, and other industry professionals." Another letter of support froml I 
a judge at the 6th Music A wards, stated that the Petitioner was recognized "as the 
Best Singer (Popular Choice) at the _____ wards. This award not only celebrated her 
individual achievement but also highlighted her ability to connect with the audience through her 
melodious voice and heartfelt renditions." 
In addition, the Petitioner presented articles from Banglanews24.com and The Daily Star predating 
the 6th I I Music Awardsl I2010 ceremony. The August 2010 article in 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
Banglanews24.com lists the award categories and asks for artists or production companies to submit 
their audio albums for consideration. The November 2010 article in The Daily Star announces the 
nominees "in 15 different categories," including the Petitioner in the "Best Promising Artist" category. 
These articles do not indicate that the Petitioner's I I 2010 award at the 6th 
Music Awards received media coverage or attention that rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. The Petitioner also provided information from Wikipedia about the I I Music 
Awards. As there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited 
Internet site, information from Wikipedia will be accorded minimal evidentiary weight. See Laamilem 
Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 2 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a trophy indicating that she was a recipient of a I I Honorary Award -2021 for Special Contribution to Music." A letter of support from 
an organizer for the I I A ward Committee, stated: "This prestigious 
award, named in honor of our celebrated poetl Iis a significant acknowledgement in the 
Bangladeshi media landscape, celebrating those who have made outstanding contributions to Bengali 
culture, acting, and literature." 
While the Petitioner submitted letters of support from an organizer and a judge for the 6th I !Music Awards and from an organizer ofthel !Honorary Award, these 
letters do not show that either ofher specific awards garnered sufficient recognition beyond the context 
of the events where they were presented. The Petitioner has not demonstrated the significance of her 
awards in the field of endeavor or that they have received media coverage or other attention that rises 
to the level of national or international recognition. Without further evidence regarding their national 
or international significance in her field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The Petitioner 
therefore has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on her membership with the Bangladesh 
Shilpakala Academy, Bangladesh Television, and Bangladesh Betar. USCIS determines if the 
association for which the person claims membership requires that members have outstanding 
achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 3 The petitioner must show that 
2 See also information from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer, accessed on October 9, 2024, 
which indicates that Wikipedia's content is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WTKTPEDTA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information .... 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification 
is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 4 
The Petitioner initially provided letters from Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangladesh Television, 
and Bangladesh Betar all identifying her as a member, but these letters do not discuss their specific 
requirements for admitting members. For example, the letter from Bangladesh Television states that 
the Petitioner was "listed in the 'C' category" and the letter from Bangladesh Betar indicates that she 
"passed the 'C' class in modem music," but they do not explain the requirements of that category or 
classification. The Petitioner also provided information from Wikipedia about Bangladesh Shilpakala 
Academy, Bangladesh Television, and Bangladesh Betar. Again, there are no assurances about the 
reliability of content from Wikipedia and therefore its information will be accorded minimal 
evidentiary weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d at 909. Regardless, the 
information from Wikipedia does not provide Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangladesh 
Television, and Bangladesh Betar's membership requirements. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
Bangladesh Television listing its "Enlistment Process Criteria": 
1. The artist has to work in television and media for at least three years. 
2. The artist has to work in at least 5 remarkable projects of Bangladesh Television in any sector 
of art. 
3. The artist has to be prominent and widely known among the audience in Bangladesh. 
4. The artist has to be Bangladeshi citizen by birth. 
5. The artist has to be at least 18 years old. 
The Petitioner has not established that the above criteria rise to the level of outstanding achievements. 
Furthermore, the letter from Bangladesh Television does not indicate that admission to membership 
in its organization is judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner's RFE response also included an article entitled, "Bangladesh Betar -The Story of 
Glory." This article states that"[a ]rtists were required to go through the audition process in order to 
perform at the Bangladesh Betar," but it does not indicate that the organization required outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts. In addition, 
the Petitioner presented information about Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy from the Ministry of 
Cultural Affairs. This information, however, does not discuss Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy's 
membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the membership criteria for Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, 
Bangladesh Television, and Bangladesh Betar rise to the level of outstanding achievements. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that admission to membership in their organizations is 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established she meets this criterion. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided multiple articles relating to her work as a singer, but their authors were not 
identified as required by this criterion. 5 In addition, the English language translations accompanying 
the submitted articles were not properly certified by the translator as required by the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English 
language translation. Id. The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete 
and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
Id. Without such a certification, we cannot rely on the articles' foreign language translations. 
Some of the Petitioner's submitted articles did identify an author. For example, April 2023 articles in 
both Ittefaq and Bang/a Telegram include a single sentence mentioning that the Petitioner would 
appear with other artists at an upcoming esti val concert featuring I Ibut these articles 
are not about her. Instead, the articles discuss theOconcert event. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 
No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner presented an April 
2019 article about her in Daily Naya Diganta, but she has not shown that this publication's circulation 
or readership renders it a form of major media. The Petitioner therefore has not established she meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from an organizer ofthe Festival 
2023, stating that the Petitioner served as a "judgein the Islami Song (Single) category" at 
c=J='"2023. She also provided a certificate and an article in New Nation confirming her participation 
as a song judge at 2023. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's determination on this issue 
and conclude that the Petitioner meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For this criterion, USCIS determines whether the person has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services relative to the compensation paid to others working in the 
field. 6 The Petitioner submitted an October 2015 agreement with I Iand 
a a June 2023 service agreement with I a 
July 2021 service engagement with I a July 2019 service 
agreement withl land her 2002-23 income tax forms. She also 
5 This criterion states that evidence of the published material "shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
presented letters from L-A-L-, M-S-H-R-P-, S-M-M-, A-N-T-, D-S-R-, and N-N-all asserting that she 
is "one ofthe highest-paid singers in Bangladesh," but they do not point to any objective compensation 
data to support their claim. Their letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor 
does the record include adequate corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner's remuneration 
for services from 2015 through 2023 was significantly high relative to others in the field. Unsupported 
assertions have no evidentiary value and are insufficient to establish a filing party has satisfied their 
burden of proof. See Matter ofMariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 673 (BIA 2022). 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a 2024 article in Bangladesh Today, 
entitled ___________________________ 7 This article, 
however, post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing 
the benefit request. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). Regardless, the article in Bangladesh Today 
limits its comparison of the Petitioner's earnings to the fees charged by only six other performers and 
therefore it does not offer a valid sampling comparison. 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary 
or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. Accordingly, she has not established 
that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. 8 Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions 
would be insufficient, in and ofitself, to meet this criterion. 9 The evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in 
similar pursuits in the performing arts. 10 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a February 2019 agreement with 
an August 2017 agreement with a June 2022 agreement with I 
The author of this article 1s not identified, and the "News Link" listed for the article, 
https://thebangladeshtoday.coml did not link to the article at Bangladesh Today's website. The Petitioner must 
resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of 
Ho, 19 T&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
8 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
9 Id. 
10Id. 
6 7 
I I a March 2018 agreement with a January 2023 payment confirmation letter fromI Iand a March 2023 payment voucher from ______ This 
documentation, however, does not show the volume of the sales and box office receipts for the 
Petitioner's performances or that she has achieved commercial success relative to others involved in 
similar pursuits in the performing arts. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided 
promotional material relating to her 2024 performances in These performances, 
however, post-date the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing the 
benefit request. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). Nevertheless, without evidence of sales or box 
office receipts demonstrating her commercial successes in the performing arts, the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner meets the judging and display criteria, but she has not established she satisfies the 
criteria relating to awards, memberships, published material, remuneration, and commercial successes. 
Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the initial criteria is dispositive of her appeal, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
We therefore reserve this issue. 11 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 11, 2023 In Re: 28355024 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a gender, diversity, and inclusion specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director subsequently 
reopened the proceeding. In a second decision, the Director denied the petition, concluding that 
although the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, she did not establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among that small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. CHRONOLOGY 
The 
Petitioner earned a master's degree in anthropology (with minors in sociology and gender studies 
frot11 IBerlin in 2004, and a master's degree in international affairs from~--~ 
University in 2005. She has had approximately 17 years of work experience with several agencies of 
the United Nations includin the 
'-------------------------------'as a liaison officer, consultant, 
program manager, and partnerships manjger. It the time of filing, she stated that she was employed 
as a digital partnerships manager with the in G-4 nonimmigrant status. The Petitioner indicates 
that she intends to continue working in the United States in the field ofgender, inclusion, and diversity 
but in the private sector, specifically, the media and entertainment industry. 
The Petitioner filed the Form I-140 petition in May 2022, at which time the Director issued a request 
for evidence (RFE). The Petitioner submitted a response to the RFE in July 2022. The Director denied 
the petition in August 2022. In December 2022, the Director reopened the proceeding, and issued a 
second RFE. The Petitioner responded to the RFE in March 2023. The Director denied the petition a 
second time in April 2023, and the Petitioner appealed the decision in May 2023. 
2 
III. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that she could meet up to five of the ten 
criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met three of the evidentiary criteria and therefore 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner submitted evidence that she had participated as a judge of the work of others in the 
field; evidence that she had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation; and evidence that she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). Although we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, 
we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the judging and high salary criteria, discussed 
later. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements by 
meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field of specialization. For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that she meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her asserted review 
of advertising campaign submissions at the Ad Venture Student Competition 2018-2019. The record 
shows that the competition, sponsored by the European Institute for Commercial Communications 
Education (EDCOM), required competing teams to provide advertising campaigns that raise 
awareness of gender-stereotyped marketing aimed at children. 
Within the initial submission, the Petitioner provided an email dated March 22, 2019, addressed to her 
from E-H-, an education and training assistant with the European Association of Communications 
Agencies (EACA), 1 providing her individual login details to the Ad Venture judging platform. The 
email also attached a jury information pack for the competition, indicating that "for the first round of 
judging, each juror will be given between 7-9 campaigns to judge between 22 March and 8 April 2019 
.... on our online Ad Venture platform, through which students also submit their work." The 
information pack indicated that jurors would award each submission with a score out of 10 points for 
three separate judging criteria: research; strategy; and creativity and media. The Petitioner also 
provided an additional email addressed to her from E-L-dated April 4, 2019, which states "I am 
getting in touch with you to make sure everything is running smoothly with the judging process" and 
1 The record shows that EACA founded EDCOM in 2007. 
3 
advising the Petitioner "to reach out should you encounter any difficulties accessing the platform or 
submitting your votes." 
Within her response to the Director's first RFE, the Petitioner provided an email she sent to E-L-dated 
April 5, 2019, stating "I will make sure to complete the judging in the next couple of days." Further, 
she provided emails from E-L-dated April 26, 2019, and May 22, 2019, addressed to "Ad Venture 
Jurors," thanking them for their participation, identifying the teams that made the final competition, 
and providing the winner of the Ad Venture Student Competition 2018-2019. 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. Here, the above emails do not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually 
completed the judging of advertising campaigns for the 2018-2019 Ad Venture Student Competition. 
Instead, as indicated above, the emails reflect a reminder to conduct the advertising campaign judging, 
and the Petitioner's statement of her intention to complete that task. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed the advertising campaign 
judging. Further, the Petitioner did not submit corroborating documentation showing how many or 
which advertising campaigns she reviewed at the first round of the Ad Venture Student Competition 
2018-2019. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision ofthe 
Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that they 
have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. 
In her personal statement, the Petitioner placed particular emphasis on having "contributed to and co­
authored some ofl Imajor professional publications such as their annual reports" published 
in 2021. The Petitioner relies upon several support letters from coworkers to establish her eligibility 
under this criterion. The authors indicate that the Petitioner, during her tenure at I l contributed 
to I I publications. The letters support a determination that she has experience in the field of 
gender, diversity, and inclusion, and has offered valuable contributions to projects to which she was 
assigned. However, the letters do not describe a specific original contribution that has impacted the 
broader field of gender, diversity, and inclusion, provoked widespread commentary, or had an 
influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her previously submitted recommendation letters from L-R-and 
S-J-, both ofl I"clearly describe how the [Petitioner's] research contributions have impacted 
4 
the field."2 The letter from L-R-, Associate Director, Gender Equality, and S-J-, Senior Advisor, 
Gender Equality, describe the Petitioner's previous roles as "Gender Socialization Programme 
Manager" and "Partnerships Manager" with I I Gender Section in New York. The Petitioner 
indicates in her resume that she held these roles between 2017 and 2021. 
The letter from L-R-relates that the Petitioner's work involved "researching and reportinJ our findings 
as to how the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted women and girls" in three I publications 
published in 2021. 3 It asserts she "helped yield new resources for the team" through partnerships with 
corporations such as I Ion self-esteem and body confidence for girls, and I Ion 
STEM and digital literacy skills for girls. 
The letter from S-J-, relates the Petitioner's having made "original contributions ofmajor significance 
in the area of promoting gender roles in media and entertainment" through researching and 
contributing to several additional I I publications published in 2021. 4 S-J-praises her "sharp 
focus on identifying and providing solutions to address gender-related stereotypes." However, the 
letters from L-R-and S-J-did not elaborate on how her research contributions and reporting have been 
of major significance in the overall field beyond the U.N. agencies that utilized her contracted 
services. 5 
For instance, S-J-broadly claimed thatl lhas benefited from [the Petitioner's] contributions, 
other UN agencies have benefited from her contributions, and the international community of girls 
and women has benefited from [the Petitioner's] work. The impact of her work is far-reaching and 
significant, and it exhibits innovative approaches to age-old problems." Here, S-J-did not provide 
specific information explaining how the Petitioner's contributions impacted the greater field. While 
this and other letters in the record sufficiently show that she performed in critical roles for specific 
organizations satisfying the regulation at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion, 
they do not demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major significance in the larger 
field. 
Furthermore, L-R-speculates on the potential influence of a corporate partnership the Petitioner 
developed and on the possibility of its being majorly significant at some Toint in the future. For 
example, L-R-asserted that the partnership the Petitioner developed with Ion STEM and 
digital literacy skills for girls will "increase their representation in STEM careers and the 21st century 
workforce of the future." While L-R-indicates promise in the Petitioner's previous work for 
2 Although we discuss only the letters that the Petitioner highlights on appeal, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 L-R-cites to the followin I I ublications : Famil -Friend! Policies or Workers in the In ormal Economy: 
'F====;-------------------r---------r-----...,.. .org), and the 
.___ __.I annual reports, Global Annual Results Report 2020 ._________ _.. org) and Global Annual Results 
Report 2020 -I !.,..r......__ _, 
4,..-S_ -_J-_c_i_te~s_to~th-e~fo-11-o~w-in_ a -d-d~it-io~n-al ____ -u~b1-ic_a-ti~on=s-: _A~dv_a -n~cz"""""i ·nPositive Gender Norms and Socialization ---------,---.--------------Responsive Parenting .....__ __.org); and Promoting Diversity and Inclusion -d !org); Technical Note -Gender
in Advertising: ._______ ____,I !org). 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) ; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
~--~I Gender Section she did not demonstrate how her work already qualifies as a contribution 
of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of 
her work to the greater field has yet to be determined, measured, or established. 
Submitted letters should specifically describe the Petitioner's contribution and its significance to the 
field. 6 Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact her work has had on the overall field. USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
The Petitioner also submitted her claimed publications and citation evidence for her published work. 
The Petitioner indicated that she co-authored the above six publications and that others cited her 
written work in their own work. In Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, l 036 (9th Cir. 2009), the court 
held that publications and presentations are not sufficient evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
absent evidence that they were of "major significance" in the field. In 2010, the Kazarian court 
reaffirmed its holding that we did not abuse our discretion in finding that the petitioner had not 
demonstrated contributions of major significance. 596 F.3d at 1122. Furthermore, there is no 
presumption that every published article or conference presentation is a contribution of major 
significance in the field; rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of their article or 
presentation. 
As one type of evidence of the impact of her work, within her response to the second RFE, the 
Petitioner included a Google Scholar citation report which indicated that two versions of the 
Petitioner's 2021 ublication, entitledFamil -Friend! Policies or Workers in the In ormal Economy: 
'---------------------------------------'were 
published on Papers.ssrm.com and Europepmc.org. The citation report from Google Scholar did not 
show that the publication garnered any citations. 7 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can 
confirm that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. The Petitioner 
submitted several examples of articles that cited to the ublication Famil -Friend! Policies or 
Workers in the In ormal Economy:'--------------.----..-----------~ '------------~ including self-citations in other~___,publications; however, they 
do not reflect that her written work was singled out as particularly important. Rather, the Petitioner's 
work was utilized as background information to the authors' articles. The Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that her citations for any of her claimed publications are commensurate with 
contributions of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 Id. 
7 The remaining five publications the Petitioner claims to have authored are not listed on the aforementioned Google 
Scholar report. 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As indicated earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. If a petitioner claims to meet this 
criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence of their earnings or 
remuneration and evidence such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See 
generally, 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). For the reasons outlined below, the record 
does not reflect that the Petitioner provided sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that she 
fulfils this criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim that she could satisfy this criterion. The Director's second RFE 
advised her that she would need to submit documentation of her annual earnings and evidence that 
would allow USCIS to compare her earnings to that of others working in the field. In response to the 
Director's RFE and on appeal, the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her salary 
at her position at I I Specifically, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing her salary in her 
current role as "Digital Partnerships Manager" at I I The Petitioner's current position is also 
described in the record by I Ias a "Partnerships & Fundraising Specialist." However, the 
Petitioner provided wage data of occupations that are not same as these positions. In particular, the 
Petitioner offered documentation relating to the salaries ofgender, diversity, and inclusion consultants, 
specialists, and managers. 
Although she likens her salary to other occupations, the Petitioner did not show that she commands a 
high salary "in relation to others in the field," such as digital partnerships managers and partnerships 
and fundraising specialists. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate she earned a high salary 
compared to others in her field. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion, we withdraw the decision of 
the Director for this criterion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the leading or critical role criterion, she does not meet 
any additional criteria on appeal regarding judging, contributions, and high salary. While she claims 
eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
7 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 8 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance ofher work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(I )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 11, 2024 In Re: 33962027 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we find that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and we will therefore 
withdraw the Director's adverse determination on that issue pursuant to our discussion below. 
However, we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that she meets the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(v) and (viii). 
The Petitioner also maintains on appeal that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which 
relates to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. However, because the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets four of the five evidentiary criteria claimed on appeal, 
she would not establish that she met three out often criteria even ifwe considered her claims regarding 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). As such, we need not determine whether she meets the 
requirements of this criterion, nor do we need to provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly , we will reserve these issues. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 1 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
In the petition form, the Petitioner lists "dancers and choreographers" as her occupation and job title 
and states that her position requires her to "undergo rigorous auditions and rehearsals, dedicating hours 
each day to perfect complex dance movements and collaborate closely with instructors, 
1 Although the Petitioner previously claimed that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). which requires 
evidence of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration, we need not address this criterion as the Petitioner does 
not further pursue this claim on appeal. See Rizk v. Holder, 629 F.3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding that issues 
not raised in a brief are deemed waived). 
2 
choreographers, and fellow dancers." Therefore, it appears that the Petitioner bases her claim of 
extraordinary ability on her skills and experience as a dancer and choreographer. 
The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence to show that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore provide evidence showing that she satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Petitioner claims that she meets the 
elements of seven of these criteria, which are summarized below: 
• (i), Recipient of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions; and 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. 
A. Criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the claimed criteria. We find, 
however, that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence that she met the requirements of the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence that the Petitioner displayed her work at an 
artistic exhibition or showcase. 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner received two certificates of honor for her participation 
in two group dances -_________ -during two dance competitions in 2011 and 
2013, respectively. The record also contains published materials about a 2018 performance and the 
artists who created and starred in that performance. The published materials included photographs of 
the performance and the list of performers comprising the cast, which included the Petitioner, whose 
bio, along with those of the other performers, was also included. In sum, we find that the submitted 
documents offer sufficient evidence that the Petitioner displayed her work at an artistic exhibition or 
showcase and that she therefore met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
As such, we will withdraw the Director's adverse determination regarding this criterion. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
B. Remaining Criteria 
Notwithstanding our favorable determination concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
the record supports the Director's adverse findings regarding the remaining criteria, which we will 
address below with the exception of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), as explained earlier. 
First, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in 
professional associations. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that she is or was a member 
in an association in her field, that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
and that this requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. 
3 
The Petitioner claims that she satisfies this criterion based on her membership in the Chinese Dancers 
Association and the Guangdong Provincial Examination District Committee. She asserts that her 
membership in these organizations "underscores her exceptional standing within the dance 
community." The Petitioner also states that she is "the general manager and legal representative" of 
the I I highlighting her respective memberships as 
"evidence of her outstanding achievements" and her "commitment to advancing dance arts and 
meeting the high standards set by these influential organizations." 
The Petitioner's initial supporting evidence pertaining to this criterion included: 1) a translation of 
the Petitioner's membership certificate, which includes a photograph of the Petitioner and lists her 
name, sex, date of birth, and her position as "Secretary General of ___________ 
I 2) a translation of the corresponding organization's membership guide, stating that 
members are responsible for restoring lost membership certificates and are required to pay 
membership fees; 3) a translated registration certificate titled "Inheriting and Developing Folk Dance 
Harmonizing and Unifying Talents"; and 4) a translated membership certificate for "The China 
Institute ofMinistry Nationality Dance."2 Neither the registration certificate nor the latter membership 
certificate listed an individual's name and thus neither demonstrates the Petitioner's membership in 
either organization. Further, the Petitioner did not provide evidence demonstrating her claimed 
membership in the Chinese Dancers Association or the Guangdong Provincial Examination District 
Committee, nor did she establish that her membership or position with the ________I !required outstanding achievements as judged by experts in the field. 
In the Petitioner's response to a request for evidence (RFE), she did not further mention the 
Guangdong Provincial Examination District Committee or her affiliation with that organization; she 
mentioned only her membership in the Chinese Dancers Association and her position as Secretary 
General of the I I However, her supporting evidence 
includes resubmissions of the documents described in numbers 1-4, above. She did not submit 
evidence to support her claimed membership in the Chinese Dancers Association, which she has listed 
separately from her membership in the ________________ thus indicating 
that these are two distinct organizations. The Petitioner also provided a document titled "Constitution" 
and "Articles of Association" pertaining to the Beijing Chinese Folk Dancers Association, but she 
provided no evidence of her membership in that association to explain the relevance of these 
documents. 
Although the Petitioner provided what appears to be a translation of the rules of the I I 
the record does not contain the corresponding foreign version of this 
document. The record also does not contain a translator's certificate identifying the translator and 
affirming the translator's certification as to the completeness and accuracy of the translation and the 
translator's competency to translate from the foreign language into English. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ I 03.2(b )(3). And aside from the Petitioner's failure to comply with this regulatory requirement, it 
does not appear that the translated material would result in the Petitioner meeting the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Article 8 of the translation, which lists the membership criteria, contains 
2 All four translations contain a translator's name and certification attesting to the accuracy of the translated content, but 
none was accompanied by a copy of the original corresponding foreign document. Although we have acknowledged the 
listed submissions. it does not appear that they are in compliance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
4 
the following professional requirements: "2[.] dance professional education, has outstanding dance 
specialty, foll-time or part-time engaged in dance recreation, performance, teaching, training, theory, 
organization, have certain professional level, or above the district level . . . culture, education 
departments or city dance and other inter-district folk organizations hosted the competition awards the 
winners and or intermediate above the professional and technical personnel." These requirements do 
not indicate that outstanding achievement is a condition for membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to previously submitted evidence and highlights the contents ofArticle 
33 of the rules document pertaining to the However, 
aside from the lack of evidence showing that the translation is not in compliance with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(3), the Petitioner's claim as to the contents of Article 33 is not supported by the previously 
submitted translation. Namely, the Petitioner claims that pursuant to Article 33, "a Secretary General 
must 'have the corresponding professional knowledge, experience, and ability, be familiar with the 
industry situation, and have great impact in the business field of the association." However, a review 
of the translated material shows the following: "Article 33 The Association shall establish a strict 
financial management system to ensure that the accounting materials are legal, true, accurate and 
complete." This inconsistency further undermines the Petitioner's claim and the contents of the 
translated material. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988) (requiring a petitioner to 
resolve inconsistencies with independent, objective evidence). 
Given the evidentiary deficiencies discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfied 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) through her membership in the 
Although the Petitioner also reiterates her claimed membership with the China 
Institute of Ministry Nationality Dance, as stated above, the supporting evidence includes only a 
translated membership certificate which does not list the Petitioner's name. As such, the evidence 
does not support the Petitioner's claimed membership in this organization. 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence that material 
about a petitioner and their work in the field of endeavor has been published in a professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. 
Despite acknowledging that the Petitioner submitted articles where she was featured or mentioned, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner provided no evidence that the published material was printed 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Director pointed out that the 
Petitioner did not: 1) submit material to establish the circulation statistics for the publishing sources; 
2) provide circulation data to compare with those of the submitted publications; or 3) establish the 
intended audience of the publications containing the submitted articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to previously submitted evidence and argues that the internet platforms 
containing her articles are "well established" and further states that the platforms "have significant 
monthly traffic and are recognized as major media outlets in China." However, the Petitioner does 
not address the Director's concerns about the lack of evidence to support the circulation statistics she 
previously provided or the lack of comparative circulation data. In sum, the record lacks evidence 
demonstrating the significance ofthe statistics the Petitioner previously provided or evidence that such 
information published on internet platforms reflects status as major media. For the reasons discussed 
herein, the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's adverse determination regarding this criterion. 
5 
We now tum to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence that the Petitioner 
participated as a judge over the work of others in her field. 
The record contains a document titled _____________ with the phrase "Proof 
of invitation" directly below the title of a statement discussing the details of a square dance 
competition. Although the Petitioner provided what appears to be a foreign version of the translated 
document, the translation is not accompanied by a translator's certification attesting to its 
completeness and accuracy or confirming the translator's competency to translate from the foreign 
language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
The record also contains several photographs depicting the Petitioner sitting at a rectangular table 
alongside several individuals. One of the photographs consists of a closeup depiction of a card that 
was placed in front of each individual seated at the table, while another photograph is a closeup of the 
Petitioner with the word "judge" typewritten on the photograph below one of the cards and the 
Petitioner's name similarly typewritten on the photograph near her image; the phrase "The Petitioner" 
is handwritten and appears directly above the Petitioner's typewritten name. As with the previously 
discussed invitation, the foreign language content was not accompanied by the required translator 
certification nor does the typewritten material appear to have been part of the original image. These 
deficiencies therefore undermine the probative value of the photograph. See id. 
Although the Director acknowledged the submitted evidence, it was deemed insufficient as proof of 
the Petitioner's actual participation as a judge. On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's 
findings, highlighting the previously submitted photographs of the Petitioner "in action as a judge" 
and pointing out that the card in front of the Petitioner, labeling her as a judge, is "clearly visible." As 
noted above, the source of the translation and competency of the translator remain unknown thereby 
leading us to question the accuracy of the translation. Id. Likewise, the article that purportedly 
discusses the competition that the Petitioner is claimed to have judged similarly lacks a certified 
translation, thereby precluding us from relying on the submitted materials as sufficient evidence that 
the Petitioner satisfied the elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence of the 
Petitioner's original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. Thus, not only must the Petitioner 
establish that she made original contributions, but also that the contributions have been of major 
significance in her field. 
In denying the petition, the Director noted that the Petitioner provided recommendation letters, news 
articles, and evidence of her work as a director rather than her prior work as a dancer and 
choreographer. However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide corroborating 
evidence establishing that her contributions were original or that they have been of major significance 
in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to previously submitted documents as evidence that she made 
contributions to the field of dance. The question here, however, is not whether the Petitioner 
contributed to her field, but rather whether the contributions she made were original and of major 
significance. Although the Petitioner also argues that she founded I 
6 I 
opened her own training institution, the record does not contain evidence corroborating these claims. 
See Matter o/Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (stating that assertions must be supported 
by relevant, probative, and credible evidence). In fact, the Petitioner had not previously mentioned 
this style of dance, nor had she previously submitted evidence concerning this claim. Although the 
Petitioner did reference "a dance-focused business in I I which she claimed to have 
"successfully established and expanded," she neither claimed nor provided evidence to show that she 
founded an original form of dance. The Petitioner also highlighted her "pivotal role" in a dancer's 
association, asserting that she "played a crucial role in I Icultural landscape" which she 
claims benefited from her "strategic vision and business-like contributions." However, these 
assertions do not address the critical question of whether the Petitioner's contributions were original 
and of major significance in her field. 
The Petitioner also described a dance event in which she claims to have used an "innovative approach" 
of integrating dance with live music "to engage with the local business district and the community." 
However, the record lacks evidence that this approach was an original contribution of the Petitioner 
or that it was of major significance in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner did not document the 
originality or major significance of her contributions to a multi-day youth dance event to which she 
claims to have made "impactful contributions." Most of the articles the Petitioner submitted about 
this event discuss the event itself and mention the event's sponsors and participants. One article 
mentions the Petitioner's role as a teacher, stating that she "taught technical skills of folk dance and 
jazz dance respectively." But none of the submitted materials indicate that the Petitioner made an 
original contribution. 
Another submission that the Petitioner highlights on appeal is a recommendation letter from Ms. 
a fellow dancer who stated that she "worked closely with" the Petitioner and can attest to the 
Petitioner's significant contributions to the field of dance. Ms.D referred to the Petitioner's 
"profound passion for her art, particularly in Kazakh ethnic dance" and discussed her collaboration 
with the Petitioner in a musical theater production featuring ethnic minority dancing and live music. 
Although Ms.O spoke highly of the Petitioner and her ability in the art of dance, she did not specify 
an original contribution or discuss how the Petitioner has significantly impacted the field of dance 
through an original contribution. In another recommendation letter, the Petitioner's professor broadly 
stated that her "potential contributions extend beyond the stage, as she actively engages with local 
communities, teaches dance workshops, organizes cultural events, and mentors aspiring dancers." 
However, no specific original contribution was identified. 
The Petitioner also mentions her role as "an Industry Expert and Judge" in a 2023 competition. As 
noted earlier, however, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish that she, in fact, 
carried out this role; and even if such evidence were submitted, it is unclear how her role as a judge 
satisfies any of the elements of this criterion, which requires an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Merely establishing that the Petitioner contributed to her field, or even that a contribution she made 
was original is not sufficient. The Petitioner would have to satisfy all elements ofthis criterion, which 
requires not only an original contribution, but also that the contribution be of major significance in her 
field. The record lacks sufficient evidence showing that the Petitioner satisfied all of the elements of 
this criterion. 
7 
I Lastly, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. 
The Petitioner has consistently maintained that her role as Secretary General of the 
was leading or critical. However, the Petitioner's initial supporting documents 
were deemed insufficient to support her claims. As such, the Petitioner was instructed in a request for 
evidence to further document her role with the association as leading or critical. The Petitioner's 
response included several documents with the name of the association at the heading. One document 
purported to list the organization's vice chairman, deputy secretary general, and directors, while the 
other document purported to list the association's rules. In the denial, however, the Director pointed 
out that the documents submitted "were only the translations." 
Our review of the evidence confirms that while the document contains a stamp with foreign writing 
on the last page, a copy of the original foreign language version of the document was not submitted. 
As previously discussed, the document was not accompanied by a translator's certification attesting 
to the completeness and accuracy of the translation or the ability of the translator to translate the 
material in question from the foreign language into English, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to rely on the deficient document as evidence that she satisfied the 
elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Although the Petitioner also points to 
evidence of her membership and position as Secretary General within the 
I the membership document, despite containing a translator's certification, was also 
submitted without a copy of the original foreign language version of the document being translated. 
Further, even if the Petitioner's member ID card was in full compliance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), 
this document contains no information about the duties her role entailed. The Petitioner's position 
title alone precludes a comprehensive understanding of the leading or critical nature of her role. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner also contends that she "played a leading role in organizing and executing a three-day 
dance exchange activity"; she highlights that evidence of the event's success "is confirmed by media 
coverage from major Chinese outlets." We note, however, that according to the plain language of the 
regulation, the leading or critical role must be within an organization or establishment. The 
Petitioner's role in an event does not satisfy the specific elements of this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she has satisfied the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
C. Reserved Issues 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
which relates to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. However, given the 
deficiencies described above, we need not determine whether the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of 
this criterion, and we will reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that she met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 12, 2023 In Re: 28403260 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a disc jockey (DJ) and sound producer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by apreponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserted that he is an individual of extraordinary ability as a DJ, sound producer, and 
digital marketer. The Director's decision stated: 
USCIS considers the field of digital marketing to be a different field from that of being 
a DJ or Sound Producer... A beneficiary must show how he will continue working in 
the United States in the claimed area of expertise. The record shows that the beneficiary 
intends to work for a record label I I and will "record, mix, master and 
deliver to the company master recordings." Therefore, this petition will be adjudicated 
based on the beneficiary's extraordinary ability as it relates to this field (DJ/sound 
producing). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing the Director's determination 
regarding the field of expertise.1 Therefore, we will analyze the record based upon the Petitioner's 
asserted extraordinary ability as a DJ and sound producer, and not as a digital marketer. While we do 
not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -
(x). The Director found the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. 
1 We therefore consider this issue abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that 
when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. 
U.S. Att'v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th 
Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at * 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's 
claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts he 
meets six additional evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze below.2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.3 
The Director analyzed the Playlist I !honor the Petitioner received. The Director stated, "we 
do not consider such an honor to be a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, because it is limited to participants of that competition who are 
interested in their music being played in a park or skating rink inl I" We agree with the 
Director's analysis ofthe Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. The Playlistl Ihonor is 
neither an award or prize, nor is it granted for excellence in the field of DJ'ing or sound producing. 
Rather, it is a determination that an artist's track will be played in a park in I I The Director 
also concluded that the Playlist I I honor is not uncommon in the field. Evidence indicates 
that there were "500 winning tracks" among 20 to 30 winning participants each year. The 
competition's large number of winners each year further suggests that selection is not based on 
excellence in the field. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence of past winners, he provided little 
evidence to establish that these past winners enjoy national or international acclaim such that it would 
suggest the honor is nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional background information on the competition and 
emphasizes that it is open to artists from many different countries. While we acknowledge the 
international nature of the competitors, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence showing 
that winning the competition is a prize or award, that it is for excellence in DJ'ing or sound production, 
or that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which class(fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.4 
2 Initially, the Petitioner asserted eligibility under the criteria 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), and (x), related to 
membership, authorship of scholarly articles, and commercial box office success, respectively. The Director determined 
the evidence was insufficient to establish eligibility under these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert error in 
that determination and therefore we consider the issue of eligibility under these three criteria to be waived. 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol icymanual/HTM L/Pol icyManual. htm I. 
4 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established how Fashion and Beauty magazine 
is a professional or major trade publications or other major medium.5 The Petitioner provided the 
magazine's 2013 circulation data, which does not appear to be relevant to the magazine's circulation 
status in 2015, when they featured the Petitioner in their on line publication. Further, the Petitioner did 
not support the record with independent, objective evidence corroborating the medium's own 
circulation claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga 
v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
(concluding that self-serving asse1iions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 
2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the published material need only be about the Petitioner's 
work in the field and that there is no need for his inclusion in the publication to have any significance 
attached to it. While we acknowledge this interpretation, the Director's determination did not turn 
upon whether the articles are about the Petitioner. The Petitioner's assertions on appeal do not 
overcome the determination that the material is not published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show he has not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization.6 The Director determined the Petitioner's evidence did not establish eligibility 
under this criterion because "the regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of 
evaluating subordinate employees or products in participation in ajob function." We agree. However, 
on appeal, the Petitioner provided additional analysis regarding the Petitioner's participation in a 
casting panel for I I While casting, the Petitioner evaluated participants to determine those 
best suited to perform atl IThe additional explanation on appeal is sufficient to establish 
that the evidence satisfies the plain language of the criterion. Therefore, we conclude the Petitioner 
has met this criterion.7 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 However, were we to engage in a final merits determination, we would conclude the Petitioner's evidence under this 
criterion is not probative of extraordinary ability as a DJ or sound producer. 
4 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.8 
The Director analyzed the,__________ __,materials and the workshops the Petitioner 
conducted, as well as his academic thesis regarding how marketing can improve the efficiency of 
banking. We agree with the Director's conclusion that such evidence does not relate to the field of 
being a DJ or sound producer. Even if we ignore that digital marketing is a separate field from DJ'ing 
or sound production, the record would still not contain sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
Petitioner's digital marketing techniques are original or innovative as claimed. In other words, simply 
because a client is unfamiliar with or had not previously leveraged digital marketing options, does not 
establish that the methods the Petitioner offers are original. In fact, the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner undertook digital marketing courses to learn more about the field, which further suggests 
that the methods the Petitioner uses are not necessarily original. Just as important, even if the 
Petitioner developed or created methods that various artists use in their work, this would not 
demonstrate the methods' significance in the field, as opposed to only the individual artists, clients, 
and businesses that hired the Petitioner for his services.9 Therefore, even original music tracks are 
insufficient under this criterion unless the evidence also demonstrated that they were of major 
significance to the field. 
We reviewed each recommendation letter but conclude that they lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language that we do not consider to be probative of eligibility under this criterion.10 USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). To illustrate, many authors claim that the Petitioner's digital marketing and sound 
production techniques contributed to their success. In support, they provide statistics, such as the 
number of social media followers they have, track downloads, or traffic to their sites. However, there 
is little comparative evidence connecting the Petitioner's work to their social media presence or even 
a baseline for which to compare an artist's prior social media presence to their improved presence after 
working with Petitioner. Other authors reference that Zara and the National Football League (NFL) 
used the Petitioner's musical tracks, but they do not provide sufficient details about the Petitioner's 
role in producing the tracks, nor does the record contain sufficient evidence to substantiate the authors' 
assertions. Even if the Petitioner worked on a particular track that became mainstream, increased the 
artists' downloads, or led to artists' success, there is little evidence to establish how these 
accomplishments would be of major significance to the DJ or sound production field. 
The evidence does not establish the Petitioner made original contributions, or that the contributions 
have been majorly significant in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility 
under this criterion. 
8 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
10 See id. at 9; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient 
to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
A petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, we 
consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establ ishment.11 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.12 
The Director acknowledged McDonald's as a recognized establishment but concluded that the 
Petitioner's Certificate of Gratitude for participating in 'I Idid not establish how the 
Petitioner performed a leading or critical role. The Director also determined the Petitioner's 
certificates of appreciation and support letters were insufficient, as they originated from organizations 
for which the evidence did not establish a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the recommendation letters' authors demonstrate how the 
Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for them. Specifically, various musical artists and DJs 
praise the Petitioner's work and highlight how leading and critical it was to their success. As 
previously explained, many of the authors use hyperbolic language without substantiating their 
assertions with sufficient evidence. For example, I I 
Dwrites that "[a]ll [the Petitioner's] contributions let us accelerate our promotion and drive real 
fan engagement and growth. However,! ldoes not sufficiently identify each contribution or 
provide corroborative evidence or detail substantiating the claimed accelerated promotion, fan 
engagement, and growth. Simi larly,I Istates the Petitioner "helped us to sign contracts with 
the most talented people in the world, undiscovered "musical treasures," but he does not identify who 
the musical treasures are or how the Petitioner helped to discover them. A celebrity YouTube star 
writes that the Petitioner boosted her career and that she "discovered music industry secrets" as a result 
of collaborating with the Petitioner. However, the author does not provide sufficient comparative 
evidence to substantiate a "boost" in her career or how it is attributable to the Petitioner, nor does she 
identify what secrets she learned from the Petitioner or how a "collaborator" role is leading or critical. 
These examples are illustrative of the recommendation letters as a whole and contribute to our 
determination that the Petitioner's leading or critical role for these artists is unsubstantiated. Just as 
important, the Petitioner has not explained how individual artists are "organizations or 
establishments," nor has the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence of their reputations. We 
acknowledge the artists' self-proclaimed reputations; however, as this is neither independent nor 
objective, it is of little probative value. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id. 
6 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to 
the compensation paid to others working in the field. 13 The Director explained that average salary 
information "for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison" and that to "successfully claim this criterion, a 
petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in his occupation performing 
similar work at the top level of the field because this is where the petitioner claims to stand." The 
Petitioner provided average salary data tori lfrom Russia's Office of 
Federal State Statistics Service (PETROSTAT). However, positions such as those entitled 
"advertising and marketing specialists," do not appear analogous to the Petitioner's position and 
duties. Further, PETROST AT specifically states that it does not have information on the average 
accrued wages by types of economic activity in the Russian Federation and that its data do not provide 
a sufficient level ofreliability. Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner's evidence is not sufficiently 
detailed or reliable for average salary comparison purposes. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that demonstrating the Petitioner's salary is above average is 
sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. However, we need not analyze this assertion, as 
the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence of his earnings. Instead, he offered evidence of 
contracts he signed with businesses and copies of invoices. It is not apparent from these documents 
what the Petitioner's salary or remuneration is in total or across any particular span of time. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfi 11 the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the type 
of final merits analysis referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate. We conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The letter 
from singer and social media influencer.I Inotes that the Petitioner is one of a few "on 
his way to success;" however, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11105898 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 14, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at 
least three. The Petitioner appealed the matter and we dismissed the appeal. 1 The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we dismissed as untimely, 
followed by a second combined motion, which we also dismissed . 
On this third combined motion to reopen and reconsider, the Petitioner contends that our decision to 
dismiss her most recent motion was incorrect based on the controlling regulations. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen and the 
motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l) . 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must ( 1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
1 See Matter of E-G-, ID# 1668798 (AAO Oct. 25, 2018). 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The primary issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss 
her second combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or 
USCIS policy. 
A. Previous AAO Decisions 
The record reflects that we issued our initial decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal on 
October 25, 2018. The Petitioner filed her first combined motion on Thursday, November 29, 2018, 
35 days after the decision was issued. A motion must be filed within 33 calendar days of the date 
USCIS served the unfavorable decision by mail. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), 103.8(b). When 
computing the period of time for filing an appeal or motion USCIS counts every calendar day 
(including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) starting the first calendar day after the date USCIS 
mailed the unfavorable decision. If the last day of the filing period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a 
legal holiday, the period to file an appeal runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, 
Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 C.F.R. § 1.2. 
Here, we informed the Petitioner that any motion to reopen and/or reconsider our appellate decision 
must be filed within 33 days of our decision dated October 25, 2018. The due date for the Petitioner's 
motion was Tuesday, November 27, 2018, and this date did not fall on a weekend or legal holiday. 
Accordingly, we dismissed the Petitioner's motion, filed on November 29, 2018, as untimely. 
In her second combined motion, the Petitioner alleged that our decision to dismiss her initial combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider as untimely was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. 
Specifically, she claimed: 
The 30th day of the filing fell on Saturday, November 24, 2018 .... The next day which 
was not on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday was Monday, November 26, 2018 .... 
8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b) provides for 3 days for to respond by mail. This [motion] must have 
been received by Thursday, November 29, 2019. AAO confirmed in the Notice of Denial 
that it was received on November 29, 2019. ACCORDINGLY, THE MOTION TO 
REOPEN/RECONSIDER WAS SUBMITTED TIMELY WITHIN THE PERIOD 
PRESCRIBED BY THE REGULATIONS. 
(Emphasis in original). 
We dismissed the second motion, emphasizing that the due date applicable to the Petitioner's motion 
was Tuesday, November 27, 2018. We noted that the Petitioner had not cited to any source of authority 
in support of her assertion that we should not count the Saturday and Sunday preceding the last day of 
the relevant filing period. Accordingly, we concluded that the Petitioner had not identified the nature 
of our alleged legal error. 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner states: 
In the dismissal, AAO cited to the controlling regulation, 8 e.F.R. § 1.2, which 
automatically established that its own dismissal decision was an error because the 
regulations mandated to roll the deadline to the next business day that was not a 
weekend or a holiday. The dismissal is therefore inconsistent with the code and is in 
error. 
The Petitioner, however, does not specify how we misapplied this regulation or other law or users 
policy in dismissing her second combined motion. 
The Petitioner's assertion that her initial motion to reopen and reconsider was due 35 days after the 
date of our appellate decision, on Thursday, November 29, 2018 is based on a misinterpretation of the 
relevant regulations. Specifically, she previously argued that since the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(l) requires that motions be filed within 30 days, her motion was due on Saturday, November 
24. She further suggested that, since this due date was on a Saturday, her actual filing deadline was 
Monday, November 26. Finally, she indicated that 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) allowed her three additional 
days to file her motion, until Thursday, November 29, 2018. 
The regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) provides that whenever a person has the right or is required to 
do some act within a prescribed period after the service of a notice upon them and the notice is served 
by mail, 3 days shall be added to the prescribed period. Because we mailed the Petitioner's appellate 
decision, her prescribed period to submit a motion was automatically extended to 33 days. As a result, 
she was not required to file her motion within 30 days, and the last day of her prescribed filing period 
did not fall on Saturday, November 24, 2018. 
As noted, this 33-day filing period was clearly communicated to her when our appellate decision was 
issued, and the 33rd day fell on Tuesday, November 27, 2018. As the last day of the filing period did 
not fall on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, there was no basis to "roll the deadline" and the 
regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 1.2 was not applicable to our evaluation of whether the Petitioner's initial 
motion was timely. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we incorrectly applied this 
or any other regulation or users policy to the facts of her case or dismissed her previous combined 
motion in error. 
In our previous decision, we also noted that the Petitioner had cited to 8 e.F .R. § 1001.1 (h), which is 
applicable to appeals that fall under the jurisdiction of the Board of Immigration Appeals, rather than 
the nearly identical regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 1.2, which is applicable to appeals before our office. On 
motion, the Petitioner refers to a non-precedent decision, noting that "AAO has previously sustained 
matters relying on 8 e.F.R. § 1001.l(h)." The referenced decision was not published as a precedent 
and therefore does not bind users officers in future adjudications. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3( c ). As discussed, 
the Petitioner in the matter did not have a prescribed filing period for her initial motion that ended on a 
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, and neither the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 1.2 or 8 e.F.R. § 1001.l(h) 
applies. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss her second motion to reconsider was based 
on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be 
dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
Although the Petitioner indicates that she is concurrently filing a motion to reopen, she has not 
presented new facts or evidence for consideration in this proceeding and has not met the requirements 
of a motion to reopen at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11271284 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 14, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a track and field athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification . 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
met this burden. Accordingly, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a track and field athlete who,...:c~o:;:;!m;.!!.l;;'.p:!:.et!:!e~s:...,;i~n~m!;.!!.!:e:!;;n~'s~l==,--------.========I 
events. At the time of filing, he was training atl~--------~I Track Club~ I I as a member of its International Elite Program. .__ ____ _. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to prizes and published materials. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that he satisfied 
these criteria. For example, the Petitioner provided evidence that he won the gold medal in thee=] I I event at the 201 7 I I Championships and demonstrated that he has received 
widespread national media coverage for his athletic achievements in his home country ofl I 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criteria relating to memberships in 
associations that require outstanding achievements, and performance in leading or critical roles for 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(ii) and (viii). We disagree 
with the Director's determination regarding the membership criterion. The Director rejected the 
Petitioner's initial claim that he meets this criterion based on his membership onl Is 2012 and 
2016 Olympic teams without considering the probative value of evidence submitted in support of these 
claims, noting that "a team is not an association." A given petitioner's membership on a national, or 
2 
even an Olympic team, will not necessarily or automatically satisfy the membership criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). However, the Director should not have summarily rejected the Petitioner's 
claim that his specific team memberships qualified him under the membership criterion. 
Upon de nova review of the Petitioner's evidence submittr in sujport of this criterion, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has established that his membership on 's Olympic teams required him to 
attain outstanding achievements by meeting world-class standards as determined and judged by the 
international experts at the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF), now known as 
World Athletics, the international federation of track and field, and approved by the International 
Olympic Committee. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets the membership criterion. 
Accordingly, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he has satisfied at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility 
for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has represented his native country ofLJ in the men's□ 
I levent at the 2012 London Olympics and 2016 Rio Olympics, and was selected for the 
honor of serving asl Is flag bearer at the opening ceremonies of both events. He has also 
consistently achieved the world-class times required to qualify for the biennial IAAF World 
Championships in 2013, 2015, and 2017, where he has competed in both thel I 
events. The Petitioner was the old medalist in the I I at the 2017 I I 
Championships, the athlete to ever win a medal at the event, and he achieved a 6th 
place finish at the 2015 .__ ___ ____. Games. He has received a total of ten gold, silver, and bronze 
medals in international competition. As a result of his perform~e was rankedc=]in the IAAF' s 
world rankings in early 2019, which placed him among the top[___J of elite athletes competing in the 
men'sl I globally. 
Additionally, the record includes evidence that the Petitioner is currently I ~s national record 
holder in the men's[ I and was also part ofthel I team that holds thel I 
record in the men'sl 1-He has been selected by thd I the 
national federation in his sport, as the senior male athlete of the year for several years, and his athletic 
accomplishments have been covered extensively in I Is national media publications. A 2018 
Pan American World article includes the Petitioner on its list of the I I 
athletes in history, recognizing him as ' This evidence sets the 
3 
Petitioner apart through a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Based on his accomplishments, the Petitioner was recruited as a member of the 
International Elite Program i~ I Athletes in this USA Track and Field~-a-s-so_c_i-at_e_d_e_h-.te_cl_u_b~ 
program receive corporate sponsorships and other benefits, and membership is limited to those top 
athletes who have qualified for U.S. national championships, U.S. Olympic trials, World 
Championships, and the Olympic Garnes. 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as a competitive track and field 
athlete. The totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is consistent 
with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he 
has documented sustained national acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 
(Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he intends to 
continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11271298 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 14, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software developer who specializes in Internet technologies, seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he intends 
to continue work in his claimed area of extraordinary ability in the United States. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a bachelor's degree in computer science from !University in China 
and nearly 20 years of experience in the Chinese software and Internet technology industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) in order to meet the initial evidence requirements. 
The Petitioner previously claimed to meet five of these ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the five claimed criteria, relating to judging and 
authorship of scholarly articles. The record reflects that the Petitioner has written several scholarly 
articles published in professional publications in his field, thus satisfying the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). Specifically, he has authored articles published in the Chinese technology journals 
Digital Space, Computernik, and Wireless Internet Technology. However, we disagree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion and will address that criterion 
below. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published 
materials in major media and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii). The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the original 
contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and therefore, we deem this 
issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also 
Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's 
claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the 
Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidence requirement by meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted two newspaper articles that are about him and relating to his work, both 
published in March 2019. The articles are similar in content and both appeared in Chinese-language 
newspapers that are published and distributed in the United States -The China Press and World 
Journal. Neither article identifies the author of the material, as required by this regulation. 
As evidence that these newspapers qualify as major media, the Petitioner initially relied on screenshots 
from the publications' respective Wikipedia pages and the circulation figures contained therein. 
However, Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it 
cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (Sept. 29, 2020), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/ wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008). 
With respect to The China Press, the Petitioner subsequently submitted an excerpt from Chinese 
Media Guide indicating that it is "probably the third or the fourth largest Chinese newspaper in the 
United States" and is printed inl 11 I and I I Finally, he provided 
information regarding The China Press from an unidentified website indicating that the newspaper 
has a daily circulation of 70,000 copies.1 Regarding World Journal, the Petitioner relied solely on the 
Wikipedia entry for this publication and submitted nothing farther. 
In order to establish that a given publication qualifies as major media, the Petitioner must establish 
that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to the circulation statistics of other 
publications.2 In response to a request for evidence (RFE) the Petitioner submitted a list of the "Top 
10 U.S. Daily Newspapers," by print circulation, published on the "Media Blog" of the website 
1 The submitted screenshot of the unidentified website includes the copyright of~I ---~ 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 7 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda 
3 
www.cision.com in January 2019. The Petitioner asserted that the circulation of World Journal would 
place it in the sixth position on the list. 
The Director determined that the additional evidence submitted in response to the RFE did not 
establish that The China Press qualifies as a major medium in the United States. On appeal, the 
Petitioner does not contest this determination. However, he contends that the Director overlooked 
evidence related to World Journal and asserts that its circulation figures place it among the top ten 
newspapers in the United States. 
However, as noted, the Petitioner has relied solely on Wikipedia to support its claims regarding the 
circulation of World Journal. Accordingly, his claims are not supported by sufficient reliable and 
probative evidence. Further, as noted, both submitted articles lack the required information regarding 
the author of the published material. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner meets this criterion, we conclude that he did not 
provide sufficient evidence related to the events or competitions at which he claims to have 
participated as a judge. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that he has "frequently served as panel member, in evaluation 
of the quality of work of others." Specifically, he indicated that he served as one of nine judges at the 
"2013 Annual Meeting oA , I" In support of this claim, the Petitioner submitted 
a two-page screenshot from the website Chinae.net accompanied by a partial English translation. The 
translation indicates that the website refers to the 2013 Annual Meeting o±1 I I I The translation is otherwise limited to providing a list of eight "Special Invited Guests" 
which includes the Petitioner's name. It did not identify him as a judge or indicate what, if any, work 
he would be judging. Most of the text in the original Chinese-language document was not translated. 3 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter froni I, who states that he 
is the CEO ofl I and writing in his capacit~ of the judging panel of 2013 Annual 
Meeting ofl I L___J states that the Petitioner was among 
nine IT leaders invited to serve on the judging panel, and states that he judged "the business model of 
the entrepreneurs team" with a focus on their "market analysis, financial projections and business 
planning." He also identifies two other members of the judging panel. 
We note, however, that neither! lnor the two other judges identified inl i's letter appear 
on the list of"special invited guests" provided at the time of filing, thus creating an inconsistency with 
the initial information provided regarding this 2013 meeting. The Petitioner did not attempt to resolve 
3 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
4 
this ambiguity in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). In light of this ambiguityJ Is statement 
alone is insufficient to establish the Petitioner's participation as a judge at this event. 
Further,! b brief explanation of the Petitioner's claimed judging activities does not clearly 
establish the nature of the event he judged in order to establish that he was responsible for judging the 
work of others in the same or allied field. Although! Is letter suggests that the Petitioner judged 
some type of entrepreneurial team event, the record contains little information regarding the 2013 
meeting and any competition that occurred at this event. As noted, the meeting information provided 
at the time of filing was not accompanied by a foll English translation. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner also claimed for the first time that he had participated as a judge at 
th9 !Cup.__ _________ __. Competition in I 12014. In support 
of his assertjou ~e submitted au iuv~trion letter that refers to the Petitioner as the "General Manager 
and CEO of.__ ________ ....,' a position that he has not otherwise claimed to hold. The letter 
invites the Petitioner as "an important guest to participate in the competition and evaluate and assay 
on the projects as a judge." The letter bears the seal of the event's "competition committee" and refers 
to "our company" but is not on company letterhead, is not signed, and does not identify the name of 
the company that issued it. 
The Petitioner also submitted a "Press Release Confirmation Letter" thanking him for his participation 
in thel I Cup competition and "the wonderful remarks you made as a judge." The letter 
requests that the Petitioner review and approve some proposed text about his partici ation that would 
be included in a press release. This letter, which is not on letterhead, bears the seal of L..._ __ ---r----; 
[ I Internet Technology Company, and again refers to the Petitioner as the CEO of l I The Petitioner did not provide a copy of the published press release or any other 
supporting documentation regarding this competition, his judging activities or the nature of the event 
he judged. Therefore, the two letters provided are insufficient to document that he meets all elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion based on his leading or critical roles held with three 
of his employers. For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A 
title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 5 
The Petitioner did not claim that he satisfied this criterion at the time of filing, but in response to the 
RFE, he indicated that he could meet the requirements based on his roles wittj I 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
5 
I ll I and~ _________ __,,.,.,, a subsidiary of I I The Director determined that the submitted letters from representatives of 
these employers did not demonstrate how the Petitioner's work for these companies was leading or 
critical. The Director farther found that the criterion was not met because "the evidence does not 
indicate that the organizations or establishments for which the petitioner has claimed to perform in 
leading or critical roles have a distinguished reputation." 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address or contest th~ Director's determination as it relates to his 
employment withl • ..,, .,..,.J Accordingly, we will not address evidence 
related to the Petitioner's role with this company. 
The Petitioner submits additional letters addressing his employment wit~ I andD 
I Ion appeal but does not address the Director's determination that he did not submit 
sufficient evidence to establish that either organization has a distinguished reputation. For 
1 1 the Petitioner had submitted screenshots from Reuters (reuters.c9m) and Bloomberg 
(Bloomberg.com). The evidence obtained from Reuters provides a snapshot ofl _ f s stock 
price on th~ lstock exchange as of December 10, 2019, while the Bloomberg screenshot 
confirms the company's date of establishment and states that its business includes "providing 
communication services." The Petitioner did not explain how these materials establish that 
~---~hs recognized as having a distinguished reputation. Since the Petitioner did not meet his 
burden to establish that this organization has a distinguished reputation, we will not address the two 
letters submitted to establish the nature of his role with this company. 
The Petitioner d~cribes I I as a renowned.__ _________ _. technology 
company, and th I Chinese-language I lportal. However, in support of his claims 
regarding the company's distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submitted only a screenshot from 
Yahoo Finance that provided the company's real time stock price on the Nasdaq exchange; the 
evidence provides no additional information regardin~its reputation in the field. Therefore, 
the Petitioner did not establish that his previous role ~satisfies each element of the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
With respect to this role, the Petitioner inirally lubmitted a letter froml I who states that 
he "has served" as general manager of the Product Division. It is not clear when he worked for □ whether he currently works there, or whether he ever worked directly with the Petitioner. g 
states "I supervise some 2,000 employees and many departments including~!------~~ 
Product andl !Department where the Petitioner served as director" from "2014-2010."6 
Although this statement appeared to reflect his current employment withe=], we note that his letter 
is printed on the letterhead that has a company logo for I I and indicates his email address at 
I I 
I I credits the Petitioner with acf°mplishjg several "oupstandiijg tasks," includmg expandmg 
the number of UC users, developing the voice platform L_J, and leading the development 
of the I I broadcast system, ~ voice telephone service, and the I lvideo broadcast 
program.I !concluded that the Petitioner made "very substantial contributions to our firm by 
6 Other evidence in the record indicates that the Petitioner worked atl~----~I from 2004 to 2010. 
6 
enhancing and internet technology" and states that his input helpeQ earn a "leading edge" in the 
market. We agree with the Director's determination that the letter lacked specific, detailed information 
establishing how the Petitioner's contributions were of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization's activities. 7 
The Petitioner submits a second letter from I I in support of the appeal. Much of the content is 
the same as the initial letter, but he adds some statistics, noting that during the Petitioner's tenure, the 
company improved in several categories of user rankings for its communications and live broadcast 
platforms. He also adds that the Petitioner "played a critical role and made remarkable contributions 
to our entire company" but he does not provide sufficient detail to establish that the Beneficiary's 
individual contributions had a significant impact on the company's outcomes as a whole. 
Nevertheless, as noted, the Petitioner did not adequately support its claims regarding D I Is distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the leading or critical roles 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
As explained above, we find that although the Petitioner satisfies the authorship of scholarly articles 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), he does not meet any additional criteria on appeal relating to 
published materials, judging, and leading or critical roles. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the appeal will be 
dismissed. Further, since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal, we decline to 
reach and hereby reserve the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of 
the Act. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach), see 
also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record indicates that the Petitioner has a successful career in the Internet technologies 
field but does not show his sustained national or international acclaim in the field and is not supported 
by extensive documentation. For example, the Petitioner's four scholarly articles, and the two media 
articles about him, were all recently published in 2018 and 2019, and he claims only two instances of 
judging the work of others in his field. Although his employers speak highly of his work-related 
contributions, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11149415 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 14, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney specializing in international tax law, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that record did not establish, 
as required, that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. 1 We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us 
on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration , a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
1 The Director initially denied the petition on August 17, 2018, due to abandonment , but subsequently reopened the petition 
on the Petitioner's motion. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established on motion that our decision to dismiss his 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the 
factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
The Petitioner, an attorney, is a member ofthe.__ ________________ ___.and has 
practiced in the area of international tax law for more than 20 years. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At various times in these proceedings, the Petitioner has claimed to 
meet six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations. 
In the denial notice, the Director addressed the Petitioner's claims and evidence with respect to all six 
claimed criteria and determined that he had satisfied none of them. Upon de nova review on appeal, we 
reached the same conclusion. We also determined that the record lacked evidence that the Petitioner 
seeks to continue work in his claimed area of extraordinary ability in the United States. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that he has satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (vi) 
and (viii), but does not contest our determination that he did not meet the criteria relating to participation 
as a judge of the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. The Petitioner asserts that our 
decision to dismiss the appeal "despite the extensive supporting evidence seems contrary to the law and 
seems to ignore the serious supporting evidence submitted from unbiased sources." He re-submits copies 
of six recommendation letters in support of his claims. 
A motion does not entail de novo review of the full record of proceeding. The Petitioner cannot establish 
grounds for reconsideration by repeating prior arguments and assertions or generally disagreeing with our 
conclusions. To warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish errors of law or policy (as 
documented by any relevant precedent decisions or other cited law or policy) or errors of/act (through a 
showing the decision was incorrect based on the record as it stood at the time of the prior decision). We 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established grounds for reconsideration of our appellate decision. 
The motion to reconsider focuses on four of the evidentiary criteria, which we address below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility under this criterion based on (1) his membership in the 
and (2 his selection as one of four attorneys serv{ng as I 
.__ ____ ___,,,,,...Counsel representing the'-------~----- of India before the 
High Court. 
On appeal, the Petitioner did not contest the Director's finding that his membership in thq I did 
not meet the requirements of this criterion, and he now concedes on motion that it is not a qualifying 
membership. 
3 
In evaluating this criterion in our appellate decision, we emphasized that the Petitioner had not 
explained why his service as ~-----__. Counsel for the ~ should be considered a 
"membership in an association" as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We farther 
determined that he had not established that this evidence should be evaluated as "comparable 
evidence" pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 2 
We nevertheless discussed the reference letters of letters of and I I the 
Petitioner's former coll ea ues at th~ and the letter o ,...___, ___ __,_. Commissioner of I I 
D(Judicial for the We acknowledged, for example, ....,_ __ __.'s statement that those who 
serve as ~----- Counsel undergo a "rigorous selection procedure where more than 100 
lawyers applied for the coveted right to rerresent th~ I I of India," and his reference to a 
review panel consisting of five I _ officials. We noted, however, that he did not indicate 
whether this panel required applicants to demonstrate outstanding achievements, or whether they 
evaluated applications on some other basis.I I stated that the Petitioner was appointed to the 
.__ ____ ~,....counsel position "based on his excellent results in Tax Law and Corporate Law," but 
did not address the selection process in his letter.I lsim!)ly praised the Petitioner as "an asset" 
to theD without discussing the selection requirements for thel !Counsel role, or the 
outstanding achievements that led to the Petitioner's selection. 
Therefore, even ifwe had determined that the Petitioner's services asl I counsel for the 
Ocould qualify as a "membership in an association," there was insufficient evidence that this entity 
requires outstanding achievements as a condition for membership or that membership eligibility is 
judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On motion, the Petitioner does not address our specific reasons for determining that he did not meet 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and therefore does not establish that our conclusion was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner asserts that our decision 
erroneously stated that "there was no proof that was his employment was of significance." We did 
not make this statement or reach this conclusion in our discussion of this criterion. The Petitioner 
notes that the letters from I l and I I ( as well as additional letters fromD I ~nd..._~-~~--'. "specify the method of choosing ... I I Counsels." As discussed 
in our decision, of the submitted letters, onlyl ts letter even briefly touches upon the method 
of selection and we explained in our decision why his statement was not sufficiently specific. 3 
In his brief on motion, the Petitioner emphasizes that the submitted recommendation letters were "not 
from friends," but we did not determine that they were, nor did we otherwise question the 
qualifications of the persons who provided reference letters in support of this petition. The Petitioner 
notes that these individuals "would not have written these letters especially on their letterhead if the 
Petitioner was not outstanding." However, the question before us in evaluating this criterion is not 
whether the persons providing reference letters believe that the Petitioner is outstanding in his field. 
2 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apjsly to the individual's occupation. 
3 Although not addressed in o~vious decision we note that I s letter only confirms that the Peµri..ons.r., 
represented theO before theL_JHigh Court. I b letter states that the Petitioner was appointed as aL__J I I Counsel "based on his outstanding results in Banking, Arbitration, Tax and Commercial Litigation" a statement 
that mirrors a portion o~._ __ _.~'s letter. 
4 
Rather, the Petitioner must provide evidence to establish that he is a member of an association that 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in his field. 
Finally, the Petitioner states "I believe that being ~ !Counsel of thd~--------~ I I of India by itself satisfies the reqmrements of [8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)]." He 
emphasizes the high level of thel I High Court within the Indian court system and the precedential 
value of its decisions. However, his statements do not address the specific evidentiary deficiencies 
noted in our decision or explain how our conclusions were based on a misapplication of law or USCIS 
policy. 
Here, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his full-time employment asl I I I Counsel with theOwas a "membership in an association." Even ifit could be considered 
equivalent or comparable, the record lacked evidence from the~explaining the selection process 
and criteria for choosing I I Counsel as well as evidence demonstrating that those 
responsible for making such selections are nationally recognized experts. The Petitioner does not 
address or rebut the specific conclusions in our appellate decision, and therefore, he has not shown 
that we erred in that decision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based, in part, on the publication of decisions by 
thd IHigh Court on an online legal database. He provided examples of published decisions in 
which his name is mentioned as counsel for the Indian government. We determined that the court 
decisions are not about him, but rather are about the legal issue that was before the court. We 
emphasized that articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1. *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a 
finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner also provided articles which were printed in reports and on the websites of multinational 
consulting firms such as KPMG and Deloitte.4 We observed that the articles extensively cover the 
opinions of thd IHigh Court and provide an analysis of the legal issues addressed in cases in 
which the Petitioner served asc=J counsel for the government. However, we determined that none 
of the submitted articles mention him or focus on his contributions to these cases and are therefore not 
about him and his work. 
In his brief on motion, the Petitioner acknowledges our conclusion that the submitted court opinions 
and articles about those opinions were not about him, but rather about the legal issues before the court. 
He argues, however, that "[t]his conclusion seems misdirected because the author of the opinion and 
4 The Petitioner also submittef an article from the website of The Times of India and screenshots from a video on the 
Y ouTube channel for I ' We determined that this evidence did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and the Petitioner has not contested our conclusion on motion. 
5 
articles in the publications describing those [ d]ecisions necessarily refer to the work of the author of 
the brief and arguments" made on behalf of the government and discussed within the opinions. The 
Petitioner concludes that the submitted court opinions and articles about those opinions "should more 
than satisfy" the published materials criterion. 
The Petitioner further argues that the Delhi High Court opinions and articles about those opinions are 
necessarily "relating to his work in the field," because he argued the cases on behalf on the government 
oflndia. However, he does not address how the submitted evidence meets the regulatory requirement 
that the articles must also be "about" the petitioning individual and not simply relating to their work. 
The Petitioner disagrees with our determination but does not discuss how we misapplied law or USCIS 
policy in determining that published materials that do not mention him, or mention him only in passing, 
are not "about" him. As discussed above, the Petitioner's disagreement with our conclusions does not 
provide a sufficient basis for reconsideration absent a showing that we also erred as a matter of law or 
policy. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion because, as senior standing counsel for thQ he 
argued on behalf of the government of India in "high profile" cases that "established new law in India." 
In our prior decision, we acknowled~ed thr he submitted copies oftheOHigh Court's decisions in 
five cases in which he represented th as well as evidence showing that the court's rulings had been 
reported by Ernst & Young and KPMG. We further noted l's statement that "the cases argued 
by the Petitioner] have led to increasing jurisprudence of law and particularly banking and tax laws," 
and~--~ statement that the Petitioner's cases have "assisted in advancement of tax law on both 
domestic and international tax law front." Finally, we acknowledged that the court's rulings impacted 
the parties involved and other companies facing similar tax issues in India. 
However, we determined that the evidence did not establish how the Petitioner made original 
contributions to the field of international tax law based on his role in defending the Indian 
government's position in these tax matters. Rather, the evidence showed that he successfully argued 
on behalf of an already established legal position. 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates that "[ m ]any of the opinions rendered by the Court in which the 
Petitioner was counsel established new Indian tax law" and emphasized that "the importance of these 
decisions is why they were written about in the International tax journals." The Petitioner asserts that 
the evidence should satisfy the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and states 
that "the fact that the articles from the accounting firms do not mention [his] name is not significant." 
The Petitioner asserts that he was clearly was responsible for the briefs and oral arguments before the 
I IHigh Court, and references letters that were quoted in our decision, as well as three additional 
letters "which may have been ignored in the AAO decision." 
As noted above, we reviewed all letters submitted in sujport of the petition even ifwe did not discuss 
each one in our decision. A letter froml was similar in content when compared to the 
letters of1 I andl I Specifically, he noted that the Petitioner's "case positions" had 
"significant influence on judicial practice in India and advancement of law in India." A letter from 
6 
.__ ___ __.,l re-submitted on appeal, praises the Petitioner's broad expertise in international law and 
business, but does n.._...,._.;......,........,__~ claimed original contributions of major significance to Indian law. 
Finally, a letter from states that the Petitioner "possesses high pr~nal qualities and 
has represented the~--------~ Government of India before the l__JHigh Court" but 
does not address how he made original contributions to the field. The Petitioner has not established 
that we overlooked evidence that demonstrates his eligibility under this criterion. 
As noted, we determined that, while the evidence indicated that the Petitioner had argued high profile 
cases as senior counsel for th~ and that the court's decisions in those cases had an impact on 
Indian tax law, he had not established how his defense of the Indian government's position in these 
tax matters was an original contribution in his field. The Petitioner's brief on motion does not address 
our reasoning or identify or rebut any error involved in reaching this conclusion. As discussed, it is 
not sufficient to simply disagree with our conclusion or to assert that he believes his evidence was 
sufficient to establish eligibility. 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous determination regarding this criterion was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he played either a leading or a critical 
role for a qualifying organization or establishment. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
the he is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is, in 
fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that he has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of his role, but rather his performance in it that determines whether the role is critical. 5 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility based on his role as I I Counsel for the~ as well as 
his role with his law firm. We found that the record did not contain sufficient evidence regarding the 
Petitioner's law firm or his position to demonstrate either a leading or critical role or the distinguished 
reputation of the firm. We acknowledged the distinguished reputation of theD but, upon review 
of the evidence, including the reference letters discussed above, we found that the evidence did not 
establish his standing within the department's leadership structure. Further, we determined that the 
evidence did not establish that the Petitioner's contributions were of significant importance to the 
department's activities, or h~w the} affected its activities. Although the Petitioner submitted letters 
from former colleagues at th the letters did not contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addressed how his role for the organization was leading or critical. 
On motion the Petitioner, referring to our decision, states that we determined "that the cases argued 
by the Petitioner on behalf of the I I did not establish that he performed a 
leading or critical role for an organization. This is not true." He emphasizes that the decisions of the 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. IO (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
7 
~-~IHigh Court "hold a precedent and binding value before the.__----r--,__ ______ ___." 
However, he does not address how the precedential authority of the High Court decisions 
establishes that he performed in a leatng Ir critical role with the Again, the record does not 
contain evidence explaining how the was structured or sufficiently detailed letters from that 
organization to demonstrate that the Petitioner's role was of significant importance its overall outcome 
and activities. The Petitioner disagrees with our conclusion but does not present an argument as to 
how we misapplied the regulation or USCIS policy in determining that he did not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For the reasons discussed above, the arguments submitted on motion do not overcome our original 
decision, in which we concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In his brief, the Petitioner expresses his belief that "the submitted letters, opinions, international 
accounting firm articles and other evidence also satisfy the other evidence requirements of 8 CFR 
Section 204.5(h)(4)." While he appears to make a "comparable evidence" claim under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(4), he does not explain why the criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) are not readily 
applicable to his occupation. 
Finally, the Petitioner briefly addresses our statement that the record did not clearly establish that he 
intends to continue working in the United States in his claimed area of extraordinary ability as required 
by section 203(b )(1 )(ii) of the Act. We noted that the Petitioner indicated in response to one of the 
Director's requests for evidence that he had become involved in the marketing and distribution of I I personal care products through a Delaware company called! I 
We did not deny the petition on this basis but indicated that the issue should be addressed in any further 
proceedings. On motion, the Petitioner states that he decided to forrtj I after his 
extraordinary ability petition was denied, explains that this Delaware company is an affiliate of his 
Indian law firm, notes thatl ] has filed an immigrant petition on his behalf under section 
203(b)(l)(C) of the Act, and asserts that "the fact that these 2 businesses do not operate in the same 
line of business is irrelevant." However, the Petitioner's motion does not directly address whether he 
intends to continue working in the field of international tax law in the United States. 
In addition, the Petitioner's motion does not include the required "statement about whether or not the 
validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the 
court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii). A motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that 
decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF E-R-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 15, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a postdoctoral fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. We dismissed his subsequent appeal, concluding that he had not 
submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at 
least three of the ten criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider and a motion to reopen. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets three criteria in addition to the one 
criterion we found that he meets in our previous decision. 
Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
1 See Matter of E-R-, ID# 1805888 (AAO Dec. 13, 2018). 
Matter of E-R-
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor.2 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 3 
II. BACKGROUND 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but that he fell short of establishing several 
others. In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that he 
satisfied the following criteria: published material under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and original contributions under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 4 In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner presents additional documentation relating 
to those three criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred 
in our prior decision. Further, the new evidence submitted in support of the motion to reopen does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner contends that he meets three additional criteria. He does not, however, specifically 
argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Disagreeing with our 
conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may 
submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
2 See Kazarian v. USC1S, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathc, 25 T&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 20 I 0). 
3 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the comi, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(l )(iii). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
4 On motion, the Petitioner does not claim to meet the previously claimed criteria related to awards under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 
Matter of E-R-
decision). Here, we will address below the Petitioner's submission of new evidence under the motion 
to reopen section. 
In reference to the judging criterion, the Petitioner did not dispute our finding in our previous decision 
that the evidence submitted showing that the Petitioner was requested to conduct seven manuscript 
reviews for professional scientific journals, such as Physical Review Letters and Computer Physics 
Communications, did not establish that he actually performed the manuscript reviews. In addition, he 
did not contest our conclusion that the documentation he presented on appeal, in the form of seven 
documents claiming to be his reviews of the manuscripts, did not contain pertinent identifying 
information such as who conducted the reviews, what manuscripts were appraised for which journals, 
and evidence from the publications confirming that he accomplished the manuscript review requests. 
Regarding the published material criterion, in our prior decision, we determined that articles 
submitted, posted on lescienze.com, livescience.com, space.com, and sciencenode.org, do not reflect 
published material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, which include the title, date, and author. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 5 Instead, the 
screenshots report on a new theory by scientists from~-----------~ Laboratory 
without reflecting published material about the Petitioner. We noted that the Petitioner is never 
mentioned in the screenshots from space.com, only listed as a contributing author in the screenshots 
from livescience.com and sciencenode.org, and quoted one time in the screenshots from 
lescienze.com. On motion, the Petitioner disputes our finding, and asserts that "because the published 
material focuses on the particular team, refers to [the Petitioner] as a member of the team and co­
author of the paper(s), and directly quotes him, the articles are about [the Petitioner], not merely his 
employer or an organization with which he is or has been associated." Similarly, the Petitioner 
contends that he made original contributions of major significance in the field. However, as stated 
previously, disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or 
policy or pointing to precedent decisions that contradict our analysis of the evidence is not a ground 
to reconsider our decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As discussed above, in our decision, we found that the articles posted on lescienze.com, 
livescience.com, space.com, and sciencenode.org were not about the Petitioner, and he did not 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
3 
Matter of E-R-
demonstrate that those websites constituted professional or major trade publications or major media. 
We noted that as evidence of major media, the Petitioner previously offered screenshots from Similar 
Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for lescienze.com, livescience.com, and space.com, 
reflecting that the websites range from a global ranking of 5,985 to 97,235, a country ranking of 1,899 
to 2,462, and total visits of 85,296 to 20,560,000. We found that the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing statistics or show how such information reflects 
status as major media. On motion, the Petitioner submits new evidence in support of his assertion that 
those websites should be considered as major media. Specifically, a "January 2018 Web Server 
Survey" posted on news.netcraft.com indicates that it received survey responses from more than 1.8 
billion websites. The Petitioner contends that, given that there are more than 1.8 billion websites, the 
fact that the above-referenced websites had a global ranking of 5,985 to 97,235, "places their 
circulation within the top ... (.0001 % ) to ... (.01 % ) of all websites on the internet" and indicates "the 
publications that have covered [the Petitioner] and his work constitute major media." However, 
documentation indicating the total number of websites on the Internet is not evidence demonstrating 
how the global or country rankings from Similar Web indicate major international or national media. 
Regarding the judging criterion, as discussed above, in our previous decision we determined that 
evidence submitted showing that the Petitioner was requested to conduct seven manuscript reviews 
for professional scientific journals did not establish that he actually performed the manuscript reviews, 
in the absence of pertinent information such as evidence from the publications confirming that he 
accomplished the manuscript reviews. On motion, the Petitioner submits documentation from the 
journals Computer Physics Communications, Physical Review Letters, Physical Review D, and 
Journal of High Energy Physics, confirming that he completed manuscript review requests for those 
publications. As such, the Petitioner has sufficiently established that he meets this criterion. 
In addition, we previously determined that the Petitioner's recommendation letters and updated 
information relating to his citation record did not establish that he made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 6 On motion, the Petitioner resubmits 
screenshots from Google Scholar showing that his top three highest cited articles garnered 106, 91, 
and 83 citations res ectivel evidence of the Petitioner's participation in the XXVIII International 
Symposium on in I I Italy, an article that he co-authored in the journal 
Nature on~--~2018, after the filing of the petition, and screenshots from websites reporting on 
the article. However, this documentation has already been submitted, reviewed, and considered; 
accordingly, we will not address them in this proceeding. 
As it relates to his citation record, the Petitioner provided screenshots from inspirehep.net reflecting 
that his "h-index" is 16 for "published only" and 18 for "citeable papers." He claimed that c=J I I, suggests that 'for faculty at major research universities h ~ 10 to 12 
might be a typical value for advancement to tenure (associate professor), and h ~ 18 for advancement 
to full professor."' ( emphasis in original). We noted that although the Petitioner referenced~ 
~-~Is article, he did not submit it to support his claims. We further found that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how qualifying for advancement to full professor based on an h-index ranking shows 
that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Nor were we persuaded that 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (providing an example that although work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Matter of E-R-
every journal article factored into the Petitioner's h-index rating is necessarily considered by the field 
to be an original contribution of major significance. We explained that publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. 
On motion, the Petitioner presents .... ! ------;::::=l~a:::::crt..::c:i~c.:c.::le::2.,_' !::::;-----y-------,,----------~ I I' published on pnas.org, confirming I I suggestion that "h ~ 18 might be a typical 
value for advancement to foll professor." The Petitioner also provides a printout from I lthat, in part, discusses the tenure review process atl !Faculty of 
Arts and Sciences. As discussed in our appellate decision, however, this evidence does not 
demonstrate how qualifying for advancement to tenure or foll professor based on an h-index ranking 
satisfies this criterion. Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown 
that, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, his findings have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the overall field. 7 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate his eligibility for the benefit sought. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of E-R-, ID# 4857488 (AAO Oct. 15, 2019) 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6197297 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief marketing officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had met 
only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least 
three. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he seeks to enter the 
United States to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records 
indicate that, after filing this appeal, the Petitioner filed a new Form 1-140 requesting the same 
immigrant classification. USCIS approved that petition on July 12, 2019. 
On May 22, 2020, we issued a notice of intent to dismiss and request for evidence (NOID/RFE). We 
informed the Petitioner that we intended to dismiss his appeal, as the issues raised appear to have been 
rendered moot by the approval of the subsequent petition granting him classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. We requested that the Petitioner respond with a letter indicating whether he 
intends to pursue or withdraw this appeal. We also advised that we may dismiss the appeal if we did 
not receive a response within 87 days of the date on our notice. 
As of the date of this decision, the Petitioner has not responded to our NOID/RFE. Accordingly, we 
will dismiss the appeal as the issues raised have been rendered moot and because the Petitioner did 
not submit a response to our NOID/RFE. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(13). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11273496 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a thermal power generation systems company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a senior 
applications and performance engineer, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that the Beneficiary satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, it did not establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he has risen to the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as a senior applications and 
performance engineer. The Beneficiary has master's degrees in mechanical engineering and business 
administration and 13 years of experience in the energy and power industries, specializing in 
performance design and transient analysis of power plants. 
As the Beneficiary has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary meets eight of 
these criteria, and the Director determined that he met four of them. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Beneficiary participated as a judge of the work of others in the field, authored 
scholarly articles in professional publications, served in leading or critical roles for organizations with 
a distinguished reputation, and commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), (viii) and (ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that the Beneficiary meets 
the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, memberships in 
associations that require outstanding achievements, published materials in professional publications 
or major media, and original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) 
and (v). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement, the 
Director proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must 
analyze all of a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if 
their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of 
2 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision reflects that he did not consider all the 
evidence together in its totality in determining whether the Beneficiary is eligible for the benefit 
sought. We agree with that assertion as the final merits determination section of the decision contains 
few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director determined that the 
Beneficiary satisfied the leading or critical roles and high salary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
and (ix), no evidence related to these two criteria is mentioned or weighed in the final merits 
discussion; the Director simply observes that the criteria have been met. In weighing the evidence of 
the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles and judging activities, the Director's analysis was 
also limited to one or two sentences that did not consider testimonial evidence explaining the 
significance of the Beneficiary's activities in these areas. 
In addition to not fully weighing the evidence submitted in support of these four criteria, the Director's 
final merits discussion disregarded evidence that the Petitioner had provided in support of four 
additional criteria. Such evidence included multiple expert opinion letters, the Beneficiary's patents, 
evidence of the commercialization of those patents, awards, media articles about projects in which he 
played a key role, and memberships in professional associations. Because the Director did not 
consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary is an individual of extraordinary ability under 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In fact, the Director's final merits analysis rests entirely on the 
number of times the Petitioner's scholarly publications have been cited and the nature of his activities 
as a judge of the work of others. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes on appeal that the Director's decision provided an insufficient 
explanation for determining that the submitted evidence was insufficient to meet the published 
materials and original contributions criteria. With respect to the published materials criterion, the 
Director did not acknowledge or discuss additional evidence submitted in response to a request for 
evidence. The Director also dismissed the probative value of evidence related to the Beneficiary's 
patents under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that his 
contributions "appear to be based on previous work in the field." We disagree, as the review process 
for patent applications is intended to ensure that only original innovations receive patent protection. 
Much of the evidence relating to this criterion was not mentioned in the decision. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
3 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11244069 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a developer and manufacturer of semiconductors and system solutions, seeks to classify 
the Beneficiary, a staff engineer, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, the Petitioner did not meet this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is currently employed by the Petitioner as a "Staff Engineer~ tin L­
lB nonimmigrant status The Petiticrer states that his work at the company "involves the design and 
development of novel I _ technology for_ 1"1 He was awarded a bachelor of 
engineering degree in 2005 and has 14 years of professional experience in the power electronics 
industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Beneficiary met two of these ten criteria, relating to judging the work of 
others in his field and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation. The record reflects that the Beneficiary has served as a peer reviewer of technical digests 
for the Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC), thus satisfying the judging criterion at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, the Petitioner has submitted evidence to establish that the Beneficiary 
served in critical roles within its corporate group and with I I both of which have a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree that the Petitioner satisfied the leading or critical 
roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary meets four additional criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3) but determined that the evidence did not demonstrate that he satisfied any of 
them. Those criteria are: 
1 The Petitioner states that ·I I are the most widely used I I in digital electronics" noting the] ;ire found 
in I I such as memory chips and microprocessors. The record reflects thatl is a high­
voltag~~--~~echnology first introduced by the Petitioner's group in 1999. 
2 
• (ii), Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material in professional publications or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the Beneficiary does not 
meet the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner does not address 
or contest the Director's conclusions regarding the other claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(iii) or (vi). Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 
1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 
(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 
therefore has not met the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has the Beneficiary made 
original contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field.2 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). The burden is on the Petitioner to identify the 
Beneficiary's original contributions. explain their major significance in the field and support its claims 
with evidence. 
Most of the evidence concerning the Beneficiary's contributions to the field of power electronics can 
be divided into two categories: his product design and development work as an engineer with the 
petitioner's group (in the United States and Austria) and his previous work as an engineer with I I I lin India. Prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner provided evidence that included 
several recommendation letters, 3 copies of Application Notes authored or co-authored by the 
Beneficiary, invention disclosures, copies of various internal documents written by him, his Google 
Scholar citation summary, and magazine articles in which he was quoted. 
As noted, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence to establish the Beneficiary's 
critical roles and his contributions to his employers' activities and concluded that he met the criterion 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 Although we may not discuss every letter individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The phrase "contributions of major significance in the field," however, 
requires evidence of an impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. 
Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. Dec. 16, 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had 
not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
We will first address the Beneficiary's work for the Petitioner's group. At the time of filing, the 
Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "has made several significant contributions tol land I I technology." In art the Petitioner explained that he "has significantly contributed to the 
success of [the companY.'s portfolio" which is designed for chargers and adapters, 
lighting and LED TVs. ~----~ a vice president within the Petitioner's! I I I division, explains that the Beneficiary's "original work on I, I failure modes in 
different power topologies lead to a better understanding for the how and ;hy] !fails under 
new stress conditions." He further explains that the Beneficia 's research and proposed solutions 
contributed to the development of a new generation of that are more robust 
and help its customers, which include television manufacturers such a ...,-----,.. _ ____.design safer, 
more reliable power suoolies I I further states that "other~-----' vendors also soon 
followed the newl !technique for improved robustness." 
I I letter confirms that the Benefician, contributed to the ongoing development and 
enhancement of one of the Petitioner' ~~----_J~ product lines that it supplies to certain television 
manufacturers. However, the record does not include corroborative support for his claim that the 
Petitioner's competitors have used the same techniques to improve their comparable I I 
products, nor does his broad statement sufficiently explain how the Beneficiary's engineering solution 
to resolve I I failures is recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Although the Petitioner submitted additional letters that discussed the Beneficiary's work in this area, 
they are similarly lacking in detail regarding the influence or im act of his contribution. For example, I I retired fa.cult of the India notes that the 
Beneficiary's analysis of the failure modes of.__ ____________ __. "helped the product 
line improve the overall product features to meet the safety standards of present day LEDTV power 
supplies." While he echoesl l's statement that the improved! !products can be found 
in many consumer products manufactured by companies the Petitioner supplies, he does not address 
whether or how the Beneficiary's work has impacted the field beyond the Petitioner and its customers. 
Related to this contribution is evidence of the Beneficiary's work on the Petitioner's I I I I package" to address failure issues and improve I I in industrial and open frame 
power supplies. The Petitioner indicates that this package was "the first of its kind at [the company]" 
and notes it was adopted by its own industrial and automotive divisions, but it did not ex2lain or 
sufficiently document what, if any, impact it had in the field. A letter from I I ofl I I I a formerly the Beneficiary's colleague at.__ ______ ~ echoes the Petitioner's 
statement that thel I package was "the first of its kind" at the petitioning 
company. He also notes that, because the package developed by the Beneficiary was adopted by the 
Petitioner's industrial and automotive divisions, it has led to "widespread usage of this innovative and 
reliable solution." However,.__ _____ __.'s broad statement that the I I package is in 
widespread use within the petitioning company is not supported by sufficient evidence of its influence 
in the field, its adoption by competitors, or its major significance. In fact, while the Petitioner 
indicated that the Beneficiary's introduction of a '1 I' version of the existing I I 
4 
package was the first of its kind in the company, it did not clarify whether the solution was novel 
within the industry, nor did it state that it had been adopted by its competitors or otherwise influenced 
the field in a way that rises to "major significance." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it is now submitting evidence that the Beneficiary's "original and 
significant contributions have been implemented by peers in the /ndustrv" Ibis evidence includes· 
an I I 2016 ress release announcing the Petitioner's new I 
Package for its....,._ ________ _. a white paper related to this technology, authored by the 
Beneficial; an ,___ _ _.2016 article titled 'I I I published by PntPower.com, which indicates that this company had introduced a portfolio 
of I I; and product information regarding D I ~4 
We note that the Petitioner's brief does not address the significance of this new evidence. The 
evidence establishes that.__ ______ __. is the Petitioner's competitor and has released what 
appears to be a comparable roduct. However this evidence alone does not establish that the Petitioner 
was the inventor of the first ~----.------..----__.product in the field, that its competitor directly 
adapted the Petitioner's use of the'----~~-' design in its ownl I product released less 
than four months later, that introduction of this version of thel t product was widespread, or 
that it is a contribution of major significance in the field. Be:ond this evidence, the Petitioner simply 
asserts that, since the company itself is a market leader inl ~ 
0 l "it is implicit that 
[the Beneficiary's] work is being implemented by others." However, we cannot determine that the 
Petitioner's market leadership provides presumptive evidence that each improvement to its existing 
products is recognized as an original contribution that remarkably impacts the field. 
Additional contributions the Petitioner attributes to the Beneficiary include his work on "defining next 
generation! I" and "testing and validation of .. j Is developed based 
on relatively new I I technology." With respect to the solid-state relays,D D states that the Beneficiary led package development activities that resulted in prospective patent 
disclosures, but he also states that the product is still in the development stage and not expected to be 
delivered to customers until the end of 2021. A letter froml I ofl I 
. discusses the Beneficiary's work in this area, noting the potential 
~a_p_p_li_c-at_i_o_n_o_f __ -th_e_s_e_n-ew--,1===-------.~ in electric vehicles. The Petitioner also submitted an 
"Invention Disclosure" submitted to the company by the Beneficiary and his colleague related to their 
work onl • L While this evidence establishes the original nature of the work, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated how this original contribution has already had an impact or influence 
on the field while still in a developmental stage. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's work on the Petitioner's new============================' D I I states that he defined test setups for robustness and thermal testing, validated the company's 
new family ofOnd developed design tools for comparing the thermal performance of different 
4 The Petitioner also submits in the same exhibit an article titled~-------~ which appears to have been 
written by the Beneficiary, published in a 2017 issue of the German magazine Elekronik, and features an image of the 
Petitioner' sl I product. The article is written in German and not accompanied by a translation. Any 
document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
5 
-----~I for.__ _____________ ---,-__,,in power supplies, which have been well-
received by its customers. He notes that these new help the Petitioner "retain the worldwide 
number one position of the I I organization here in the US and provide an edge over 
competitors," but he does not explain how the product line or the Beneficiary's involvement in the 
final testing, validation and release stages, is an original contribution or how it has impacted the field, 
rather than the Petitioner's standing in the field. I I also generally emphasizes that the 
semiconductor products designed by his company's research and development teams have gained 
"worldwide acceptance" but this statement does not establish that any given engineer who has 
contributed to its products has made original contributions of major significance within the meaning 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
While some of the other recommendation letters emphasize that the work the Beneficiary performs in 
the United States for the Petitioner will ultimately prove to be beneficial to the advancement ofl I I I an~ I, the record contains insufficient corroboration of its current impact. For 
exampleJ I states that "[i]n the forthcoming years, [the Beneficiary's] invention will 
be used by the general poP.ulation in the U.S. and around the world" but it is unclear to what 
"invention" he is referring. ---------~ who was the Beneficiary's colleague atl I I I, states that the Beneficiary's work for the Petitioner "greatly improves the efficiency and 
affordability of I I, making I I a viable option for U.S. 
customers." This statement is not supported by other evidence in the record, or even echoed in the0 I Is own statements regarding the impact of the Beneficiary's work; neither his letter nor the 
Petitioner's su orting letters mention the applicability of the Beneficiary's work tol I 
or Rather I I generally stated that the Petitioner's new generation I I 
~---~and _____ ~ "are useful to the entire technical community designing products in 
various areas of interest to the United States of America." Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Overall, the Petitioner's evidence related to the Beneficiary's research and development activities 
demonstrates that he makes critical contributions to the ongoing improvement of the company's 
products and is highly valued by the company for his expertise. However, the evidence does not 
establish how his work has remarkably impacted the power electronics field in which the Petitioner 
operates. The evidence indicates that the Beneficiary has been tasked with solved engineering 
problems, proposing new design features, and validating and documenting products prior to their 
release, thereby successfully fulfilling his duties as a staff engineer. Although the evidence confirms 
that the Beneficiary contributes to products sold to international customers, it does not show that the 
impact of his engineering contributions reaches beyond his own employer and its customers. Again, 
the Petitioner has stated that the implementation of the Beneficiary's work by its competitors is 
"implicit" but this claim does not meet its burden to demonstrate the major significance of the 
Beneficiary's contributions. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight to evidence that the 
Beneficiary has authored application notes for the company and specifically emphasizes documents 
titled l I and I 1'7 At the time 
of filing, the Petitioner explained that application notes "help customers and consumers use the 
topologies that [the Beneficiary] has developed" at the company. A recommendation letter from I I a former colleague of the Beneficiary's, stated that "only the most innovative and 
influential work is reviewed in these publications," and therefore, the application notes demonstrate 
the impact of the Beneficiary's contributions on the field of power electronics. At the same time, the 
Petitioner stated in its initial letter that the Beneficiary writes application notes as one of his assigned 
job duties as a staff engineer engaged in product development activities. On appeal, the Petitioner 
repeats that writing these notes is "part of his job function" and intended "to aid new product 
promotion and provide technical support to customers." 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the application notes "confirm that [the Beneficiary's] research results 
in practical, industrial applications that are utilized by engineers, consumers and customers across the 
globe." Given the nature of the company as a component manufacturer, most if not all its engineers 
would reasonably be engaged in achieving practical applications that will be used by its customers in 
their own products. The Petitioner also provided evidence that the application notes have been 
published in different languages but based on the international nature of the company and its 
customers, it is unclear that the translation establishes the major significance of a product described in 
a particular application note. 
Turning to the specific documents the Petitioner emphasizes on appeal, we note that the document I t while co-authored by the Beneficiary, is not identified on its 
face as an application note but rather appears to be a restricted internal reference resource for use by 
the Petitioner's customers. In fact, the Petitioner alternately refers to the document as a "failure 
catalog" that is used by engineers working for the company's customers. The Petitioner notes the 
existence of academic papers and failure analysis guides issued by other vendors that also address the 
issue of I I failures, but states that the Beneficiary's report "is much more targeted and 
original." However, the Petitioner has not explained how his authorship of a guide intended to be used 
by its customers' engineers for troubleshooting is a contribution of major significance in the field of 
power electronics. 
The other application note referenced on appeal, titled .__ _______________ ___. I I was not previously listed among the Beneficiary's published 
notes. However, it was mentioned inl ts letter, where he noted that this document "guides 
~ supply designers across the world to help them trouble shoot electromagnetic interference 
L__Jrelated product qualification issues." The Petitioner describeslhis abplication note as "highly 
popular" and asserts that it has "gained wide acceptance in the field o roubleshooting" but does 
not elaborate. Although the Petitioner's brief describes the document as "a significant contribution to 
the industry" it is unclear who is using the document or how it has been influential or remarkably 
impactful in the field. Like the failure analysis guide discussed above, it appears to have been intended 
7 It appears that the Petitioner is referring to an application note titled ........._ _______________ ~ I ta copy of which is submitted with the appeal. 
7 
as a technical resource for customers of the Petitioner that incorporatd~ _____ ___.lpower supplies 
into their own products. 
Overall, the evidence indicates that authorship of application notes is a component of the Petitioner's 
job as a staff engineer for an electronic component manufacturer. These documents demonstrate his 
contributions to the ongoing development of some of the Petitioner's I broduct lines and 
undoubtedly assist international customers who incorporate the Petitioner's components into the 
design of their consumer products. However, the Petitioner has supported its claim that authorship of 
application note, in and of itself: represents a contribution of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary's work forl I resulted in original 
contributions of major significance in the field, and, on appeal, specifically refers to the Beneficiary's 
application note titled " I I' notes in his letter that the Beneficiary performed "important work on 
I I' that has inspired "continuous research and engineering efforts in the electrification of I I andl I appliances." He also notes that the application note had been cited by others in 
professional publications. However, he does not elaborate on how the Beneficiary's work in this area 
resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. The initial evidence included the 
Beneficiary's Google Scholar citation history indicating that his application note referenced above had 
been cited twice since its publication in 2014. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted an additional recommendation letter from I I co-founder of an He states that the 
Beneficiary's application note' ·mmensely 
helpful in his own company's development of cost-effective and reliable'-----....,,....---' suited for 
India's climate, noting that it "worked as a road map" for several aspects of development, and "helped us 
d 1 d build a cost-effective powertrain platform for I I and their variants." D 
explains that the Beneficiary's paper offered a "blending of the mechanical (Physics) and 
pects ofl I design" which "we did not find in other literature." Finally, he states 
"I also know through.__ ____ __, meet-up groups that other professionals in the '-----====' 
domain have also followed [the Beneficiary's] papers in their product development efforts." D I ts letter confirms his own company's use of the Beneficiary's application note but alone, 
does not confirm that implementation of his work has been widespread or particularly influential in the I I or power electronics field. 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner further elaborates on this application note: 
The main contribution of this a er is that for the first time such a paper revealed reliable 
control schemes~UJ.J..ia:...!===-- ...... =-===-=r~=-t~h~a~t ~e!!n~ab:'.:l~e~d~d~e::::s~ig 2n~e~r~s ~to~m~o~v~e~aw~ar 
from a complex ........... --~------ or .... l ______________ __.J 
The other main contribution of this paper was to explain simple, cost-effective techniques 
to manage the auxiliary functions of thd I such as pedal assist, over-current 
and over-voltage detection functionality. One of these features has now made its way to 
be included in the safety standards of every I l The over-current protection 
feature prevents using the I I in high speed. 
8 
However, counsel's statements regarding both the original nature of the Beneficiary's work, and the 
claimed significance to the field (i.e., the incorporation of the Beneficiary's work into current safety 
standards for I I, are not supported by the evidence of record related to this contribution. 
Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 
1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements 
must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence. 
The Petitioner also submits evidence of additional papers that cite to the Beneficiary's application note 
on thel I noting that as of 2020, it has been cited 15 times. Generally, citations can serve 
as an indication that the field has taken interest in a researcher's work; however, the fact that the 
Beneficiary has published application notes that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself: 
sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient 
evidence to show that his research on thel 6 has provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others iu the field at a level consistent with "contributions of 
major significance in the field." 
The Petitioner draws attention to other evidence in the record, noting, for example, that the fact that the 
Beneficiary was quoted in magazine articles about his work with I I is "clear and 
corroborating evidence of the importance and significan[ce] of [the Beneficia['s] significant and 
groundbreaking contributions to the field." The Beneficiary was quoted as_ I 
representative in an article titled 'I I published in Electronics For You, and 
in an Electronics Maker article titled 1 I He was not 
interviewed about the application note that is claimed to be an original contribution of major significance 
and we cannot determine that these interview opportunities demonstrate that he was recognized by the 
media for an original contribution of major significance. New evidence submitted on appeal also 
indicates that the Beneficiary has written and co-written magazine articles published in Power System 
Design about products that he worked on for the Petitioner. This magazine appears to run technical 
features written by engineers and others who work in the power electronics industry. However, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication of his articles in this magazine establishes that the field 
considers these products to be original contributions of major significance. 
Finally, the Petitioner points to documentation submitted in support of other criteria in support of its claim 
that the Beneficiary has made "recognized contributions" to his field. For example, the Petitioner 
emphasizes the Beneficiary's senior membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronic En~ineers I 
(IEEE), his co-founding role in th~ IIEEE EMC Chapter, his role and responsibilities with 
I ~ and the company recognitions he received from his former employer. However, the 
Petitioner has not explained how these successes support its finding that he has made an original 
contribution of major significance consistent with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
For the foregoing reasons, considered individually and collectively, the evidence does not establish that 
the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
9 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11283915 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an event management professional , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria for this classification and therefore did not meet the 
initial evidence requirements. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider, which the Director dismissed. The Petitioner then appealed that decision to our office. 
We withdrew the Director's decision and remanded the matter to the Director for entry of a new 
decision. The Director issued a new decision in which he affirmed the denial of the petition, and the 
matter is now before us again on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an event management professional with experience in planning and managing 
components oflarge international events including the Rio 2016 Summer Olympic Games and FIFA 
World Cu(). She received a bachelor's degree in social communication from.__ ______ _. 
University I lin 2000. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of these criteria, relating to her performance in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The evidence supports this conclusion and sufficiently documents her 
critical roles as a management employee of the local organizing committees for the 2016 Summer 
Olympic Games and the 2014 FIFA World Cup held in Brazil. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets five additional criteria as discussed below, including: 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; published material in major media; 
original contributions of major significance in her field; display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases; and command of a high salary in relation to others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
2 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (v), (vii), and (ix). 1 After reviewing all evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of the criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
The Director evaluated the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion based on evidence of her 
membership in the Sports Marketing Association (SMA) and Women in Sports and Events (WISE). 
The Director acknowledged her membership in these associations but determined that she did not 
support her claim that either association requires that its members demonstrate outstanding 
achievements as judged by national or international experts in the field. 
The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she was a member of the local organizing 
committee (LOC) for the 2014 FIFA World Cup but determined that the supporting evidence only 
demonstrated her employment by the LOC, not her membership on the committee. The Petitioner 
does not contest this determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she can satisfy this criterion based on her membership in the 
SMA, WISE, and a third organization, the Worldwide Association of Female Professionals (WAOFP). 
In support of her claim, she submits copies of the SMA's "Constitution Bylaws," a screenshot from 
the WAOFP website, and an undated letter confirming her membership in WAOFP. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was approved for membership in the SMA and WISE in May 
2018, approximately one year after she filed the petition, and it does not document when she was 
admitted as a member of WAOFP. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, even if we determined that one or more of these 
1 Previously, the Petitioner has submitted evidence intended to meet the criteria relating to judging the work of others in 
her field and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
claim that she meets these criteria or contest the Director's findings that they were not met Therefore, we consider these 
criteria to be waived. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails 
to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
associat10ns requires outstanding achievements of its members, we could not conclude that the 
Petitioner satisfied this criterion at the time of filing. 
Nevertheless, we note that the SMA's bylaws state that professional membership in the association "is 
open to any individual who wishes to subscribe to the purposes for which the association is formed." 
The Petitioner emphasized that she nominated herself for a "member-at-large" position on the executive 
board of this association and therefore her qualifications underwent additional scrutiny, but the SMA 
bylaws do not support the Petitioner's claim that an SMA member must demonstrate outstanding 
achievements in order to have his or her board nomination accepted. The evidence submitted regarding 
the WAOFP's membership requirements states only that "members have been vetted and thoroughly 
interviewed" and "have demonstrated success in their career pursuits." Finally, the Petitioner has not 
offered supporting evidence explaining the membership requirements for WISE. Based on this limited 
evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of these associations require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted one article that was about her and relating to her work, published by Orlando 
BrazilUSA Magazine. The Director determined that the article did not satisfy this criterion because 
the record reflects that this magazine has a print circulation of only 5,000 copies and is not a 
professional publication, major trade magazine or other major medium. On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits the magazine's media kit which provides information regarding its online presence, including 
figures for e-mail subscribers and online views per month. She also provides comparative figures for 
the Orlando Business Journal, asserts that the two publications have a similar reach, and maintains 
that she met her burden to establish that Orlando BrazilUSA Magazine is "among major trade 
publications." 
The record reflects that the article about the Petitioner was published by Orlando BrazilUSA Magazine 
in c=]2018, more than one year after this petition was filed. Although the Director evaluated the 
evidence under this criterion, we note again that the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner has not submitted evidence of any 
published materials about her prior to the filing of this petition in May 2017. Accordingly, she did not 
establish that she can satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that her contributions have 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on her preparation of materials used by FIFA, 
the International Olympic Committee (IOC), and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) to 
"transfer knowledge for upcoming sport events and new generations of l<rofessionals." For example, 
she indicates that, following the 2014 FIFA World Cup, FIFA' sl department hired her to write 
thei I handbook chapter for the new LOC in Russia, responsible for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. 
She noted that other materials written by her during the FIFA World Cup tournaments cycle are "part 
of thel I projects of FIFA" while documents she prepared for the 2016 Olympics 
and Paralympics are incorporated in a library with more than 30,000 documents available for 
consultation by sports industry professionals, sports federations and students. The Petitioner asserts 
that these materials, which she describes as "presentations, handbooks, manuals, operational plans," 
demonstrate "a great significance and contribution to the major sports entities mentioned ... and to 
the professionals and students in my field." 
The record includes copies of documents that the Petitioner created in her capacity as the._l __ ____. I I employed by the organizing committee of the 2016 Olympics and Paralympics, and as the I I employed by the FIFA World Cup organizing committee. In support of 
her claim that she made original contributions of major significance, she submitted letters from her 
former supervisors. 
In her letter,I l I I of the 2016 Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games Organizing Committee, praises the Petitioner's talents, hard work, commitment, 
communication skills, organizational skills, and attention to detail. She describes the Petitioner as "a 
dedicated and competent professional" whose "contributions were valuable to the project." The letter, 
however, does no] support the Petitioner's claim that the published materials she created in her role as I _ for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games are regarded as "original contributions" nor does 
support her claim that these documents are of "major significance" in the field as a whole. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I the Head of~------~ I I for FIFA. I I offers similar praise of the Petitioner's professional talents and 
confirms that she was engaged as a consultant "to write one of the handbooks as well as a FIF Al I I I for [sic] the FIFA Club World Cup in Morocco." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged and discussed the Petitioner's evidence, 
but noted that it did not establish how she had made original contributions to her field or how such 
contributions remarkably influenced or impacted her field. The Petitioner submitted additional 
testimonial letters with her response to the RFE. While she indicated that they were intended to 
establish her critical role with the 2016 Rio Olympic Games and 2014 FIFA World Cup organizing 
committees, she emphasized that the letters also note her "great contributions" to these projects. 
A letter from former ~ ~ for the 2014 
FIFA World Cup, describes the Petitioner's duties a .... .-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--~~~~~~====== indetail, explains 
how she was "crucial to the success of the event," and states her belief that other sports organizations, 
organizing committees and/or companies would benefit from her "professional contributions" to any 
5 
major event. She does not, however, directly address the Petitioner's published handbooks, briefings 
and materials related to FIFA events and therefore does not offer support for the Petitioner's claim 
that these materials themselves amount to original contributions of major significance in their shared 
field. A letter froml lformer~-----------~ofthe International 
Paralympic Committee, praises and explains in detail the Petitioner's contributions and critical role to 
the Rio Olympics organizing committee, but does not clarify how she made original contributions that 
have gone on to influence the field as a whole. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 5 The Director determined that the evidence did not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner 
had made original contributions of major significance in the field of event management. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the submitted letters are 
not specific or that they do not articulate the nature of the Petitioner's "original professional work in 
the field of acclaim." 
We acknowledge that the letters submitted, particularly those ofl ~ an~~----~ 
are detailed. As noted, the Director determined that these letters sufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner had served in critical roles for the local organizing committees of both the 2016 Rio Olympic 
Games and the 2014 FIFA World Cup. However, acknowledging that the Petitioner made important 
contributions to the outcomes of these events does not lead to a conclusion that her contributions 
remarkably impacted her field to an extent consistent with "major significance." 
As noted, the Petitioner relies on her written briefin@s, handbooks, manuals and other documentation 
she created in her capacities a~~-----~~ and I at these two events. 
The work she produced was her own "original" work in that the evidence establishes that she was the 
employee responsible for creating these documents as part of her position-related responsibilities. It 
is unclear how the procedures and guidelines she outlined in these documents were novel or different 
when compared to those documented for previous editions of the FIFA World Cup and Olympic 
Games. Further, the fact that it was her original work product was made available in the libraries or 
repositories of FIFA and the IOC for future reference is not sufficient to establish that her work was 
of major significance, absent evidence that the work, for example, provoked widespread commentary 
or influenced others working in the field. 6 The letters from persons who worked with the Petitioner 
on the organizing committees of these events do not comment on the impact or influence of her written 
work and therefore their letters, while detailed, do not establish that she has satisfies all elements of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that her contribution to the management of "mega events" is "in 
and of itself 'original work' given size, significance and impact." While we acknowledge that the 
FIFA World Cup and Olympic Games are significant and impactfol sporting events, this alone is 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. 
6 Id. at 8 (stating that "funded and published work may be original," but "this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that 
the work is of major significance"). 
6 
insufficient to establish that a _______ presentation or I I briefing prepared in the 
context of one particular edition of these events is an "original contribution of major significance" in 
the Petitioner's field. She states that the types of documents she created are part of every Olympic 
and World Cup cycle and that all such documents are retained by the IOC and FIFA for future 
reference. She farther explains that the materials are widely accessible to professionals involved in 
Olympic and FIFA events but she has not established how her own original manuals, handbooks and 
presentations have been highly influential or otherwise of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on her work performed for the Rio 2016 
Olympic Games and 2014 FIFA World Cup. The Petitioner previously asserted that the nature of 
these events and evidence regarding the scope of the work assigned to her "clearly elucidates that the 
display of [her] work process, design and objectives were ultimately showcased and displayed in the 
qualities of production and directorship" of these venues. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion, the Director noted that the evidence 
reflects that her primary duties related t ~---------------~rather than the 
display of any "artistic elements." The Director also concluded that these events were not "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases." 
On appeal, the Petitioner draws attention to her responsibility for the conception, planning, 
development and execution of thel I Programs I I for the 2014 FIFA World 
Cup Brazil. The Petitioner emphasizes that these programs hosted prominent world leaders and were 
"aimed to showcase the Brazil culture and hospitality," by including regional decor, objects and 
elements, as well as traditional local food. She resubmits al I briefing and associated 
concept development documentation, as well as evidence of the proposal submitted by the Brazilian 
hospitality services company that was ultimately selected to provide the decor and catering for thee=] 
and I !program. 
The evidence establishes that th0briefing, developed to guidel !contractors in 
prepari~eir proposals, mentions these cultural elements. For example, the briefing document notes 
that the LJ area environment should have "a regional flair," "predominant Brazilian decoration," and 
"international cuisine." However, this same document also provides guidelines for all non-cultural 
elements such as I l etc. While it appears that the Petitioner was 
involved in selecting the winning! I the evidence reflects that the artistic concept for 
the decor of the I I areas was developed by that bidder, not by the Petitioner. 
Therefore, even if we agreed with the Petitioner that the0 area of a major international sporting 
event qualifies as an "artistic exhibition or showcase" the evidence does not establish that she created 
the work displayed at the 2014 FIFA World Cup or other events. As she has not established that this 
7 
event was an artistic exhibition or showcase that displayed her own work, she does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner has consistently claimed that she meets this criterion based on her earnings received in 
2015 and 2016. 7 At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted several employment contracts. In the 
RFE, the Director informed her that contracts alone did not provide sufficient evidence of her actual 
earnings and requested evidence, such as her foreign tax documents, to demonstrate her remuneration. 
Further the Director advised that the Petitioner should submit geographical, position-appropriate 
compensation surveys or comparable evidence to demonstrate that her salary or other remuneration is 
high relative to others working in the field. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included copies of her Brazilian annual individual income tax 
returns for the years 2015 and 2016. In a statement accompanying the response, the Petitioner stated 
that a "senior event manager" in Brazil earns a median salary ofR$ 7,500 per month or R$ 97,000 per 
year, considerably less than the earnings reported on her tax return. She attributed this median salary 
figure to "data of Brazilian Geography and Statistic Institute (IBGE)," but did not provide supporting 
documentation from this or any other source. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy this criterion, in part, because she submitted "no evidence corroborating" the stated R$97,000 
median salary for her occupation and geographic location. The Petitioner did not address this 
deficiency when she filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider or in the initial appeal of the 
Director's decision dismissing her motion. 
In support of this appeal, the Petitioner submits, for the first time, a geographical compensation survey 
for the occupation of event manager in Rio de Janeiro obtained from Glassdoor. Where, as here, a 
Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
7 She has also claimed that she meets this criterion based on her earnings in 2018, subsequent to the filing of the petition. 
Again, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from 
the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Our determination is therefore based 
on evidence that pre-dates the filing of the petition in May 201 7. 
8 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1820463 7 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a surgical ophthalmologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a surgical ophthalmologist. At the time of filing, she was emplord as the Associate 
Chief Physician for the Department of Ophthalmology at the I I Hospital,__ _ ___,l University 
in China. Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that she meets seven of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she meets three additional criteria relating to her receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, original 
contributions of major significance to her field, and her leading or critical role for organizations having 
a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not pursued her initial claim that she meets the criteria 
related to memberships in associations in the field that require outstanding achievements of their 
members (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)) or that she commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the field (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix)). Therefore, we 
deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria in this decision. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion regarding 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, as the record the demonstrates that the Petitioner 
performed peer review for a number of scholarly journals. The record also demonstrates the 
Petitioner's authorship of numerous scholarly articles in the medical field. However, as discussed 
below, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she, rather than her employer, is 
the recipient of prizes or awards that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the awards documented in the record 
are nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she received two nationally regarded awards for excellence in her field. She asserts 
that the evidence she submitted in support of the petition and in response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) included detailed descriptions of the awards and the processes for granting them, and 
was therefore sufficient to establish that all elements of the criterion were satisfied. 
The Petitioner presented evidenc~onstrating that she won the l !Medical Science & 
Technology Award" (2nd prize) inl__J2006, accompanied by evidence demonstrating that the award 
recognizes the city I ~s medical and health industry. The Director determined that because 
the award was limited to those within the city I I the award was not nationally or 
internationally recognized. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence, 
including a document titled "Implementing rules for incentive regulation ofl I Medical Science 
and Technology Award." In the document's "Scope of Declaration," it states that "[a]ll medical 
schools and all levels of health system, various medical, scientific research and prevention institutes 
in this city are eligible to apply for th~ I Medical Science & Technology Award." (Emphasis 
added). The Director concluded that this document forthe~rated that the scope of the award 
was limited to the institutions operating within the city ofL___J and therefore did not satisfy the 
plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that although eligibility for this award is limited to individuals or 
institutions inl l it does not mean that the award is not nationally recognized. The Petitioner 
notes that I fTs one of China's most prestigious cities, and that thel I Medical 
Association, who awards the prize, is a "nationally prestigious medical association." She farther notes 
that because only 15-20 prizes for 2nd place are awarded annually, and they are accompanied by a 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 Id. 
3 
cash award of RMB 10,000, it is more likely than not that her receipt of this award satisfies this 
criterion. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that this 
award is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence, as eligibility appears to be 
limited to individuals and companies operating in the city of~ While we acknowledge the 
Petitioner's assertions that the awarding entity and the city ol______..,_J are well respected in China, 
the award is not accompanied by evidence of the national or international recognition associated with 
it, or evidence that the Petitioner received national or international recognition as a recipient of this 
2nd place award. Therefore, although the Petitioner established that she was one of approximately 20 
recipients of the 2nd place I I Medical Science & Technology A ward" in 2006, the evidence 
submitted does not establish that this honor qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized 
award or prize for excellence in her field. 
The Petitioner also claimed receipt of a certificate issued by the Science and Technology Commission 
o~ I of Achievement for I I 
in( I 2005. The certificate states, 'The certificate is hereb_.l.....L>......,........._....,,,__conform that the science and 
technological achievements you have participated in are science and technological 
achievements upon review." It identifies the "Work Unit" as~----------~ ffiliated 
tol I Medical University, and under a section titled "Main Contribution" it identifies 
the Petitioner as "the 9th contributor." The Director found this certificate insufficient to satisfy this 
criterion, as the certificate did not indicate that the Petitioner was awarded a prize or award outside of 
the city o~ lor its municipality. The Director farther noted that the certificate was issued in 
conjunction with a national fonding initiative. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that this certificate, which she refers to as th~ I Medical 
Science & Technology Achievement! ~' "qualifies as a nationally recognized prize for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor," noting that the program issuing the certificate is a 
"major Chinese national initiative dedicate[ d] to promoting important national interests via 
cutting-edge scientific research achievements." The Petitioner rovides a basic overview of the0 I I referred to formally as the~----------------------- which 
appears to provide fonding to improve research in a variety of scientific fields. 
Here, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's receipt of this certificate 
constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize in his field of endeavor. 
Moreover, the minimal evidence submitted suggests that the Petitioner's receipt of this certificate may 
indicate her receipt of a research grant or research fonding from thel !principally designed 
to fond her future research, and not to honor or recognize her past achievements. Absent additional 
evidence regarding the nature of this certificate, we cannot determine whether her receipt of this 
certificate constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in her 
field of endeavor. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
4 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner claims that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field as evidenced by her published research, citation record, 
patents, and a letter of recommendation from an expert in the field. 
The Petitioner provides evidence demonstrating that she published articles in journals such as the 
International Journal of Molecular Sciences, Ophthalmology, and Tissue Engineering (Part A), and 
asserts that the journal rankings, as well as each journal's impact factor, are elements that should 
contribute to her satisfying this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner, however, has not established 
that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field 
considers the research and work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published 
in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the 
Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian, 580 
F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her published papers and articles had been cited 60 times at 
the time of filing. 4 This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance in 
the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record 
rather than identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that her three highest cited articles 
received 31, 9 and 9 citations, respectively. 5 Once again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to 
establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, 
citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
4 In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided an updated citation record demonstrating additional citations to her work 
subsequent to the filing of the petition. The additional citations to articles after the initial filing will not be considered. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time 
of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of her articles contained self-citations. 
5 
work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of her published 
papers or articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to her articles. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertions, 
both before the Director and again on appeal, that her citation statistics rank her as one of the top 1,140 
scientists and physicians publishing in Ophthalmology, and that she ranks in the top 0.54% of cited 
physicians given the fact that there are approximately 210,730 ophthalmologists worldwide. The issue 
here, however, is how, or the extent to which, the Petitioner's work impacted the work of those 
researchers that cited her publications. Although her citations and perceived ranking are indicative 
that her research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that her 
citation numbers to her individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted examples of articles which cited to her 
work. 7 A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research 
in the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 8 For example, the Petitioner provided 
a co of an article titled 
' in which the authors ~------------------------------~ cited one of her articles. 9 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written 
work from the other cited papers. 10 The article does not indicate that the Petitioner's article is 
authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field, nor does it reflect that the 
authors found the Petitioner's work of such value that they discuss her work extensively. Instead, the 
article briefly cites to her work when discussing an examrle of ho~ I have been used 
as substitutes for I _ during the development of bioengineered I I The Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through citations rise to a 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that one 
above-referenced article isl I, Co-Director ofth't,..__...,-------,_ ____ _J 
Center of Excellence. The Petitioner submits a professional profile forL____,.--- .......... ""-'-+ 
accomplishments in the field, and asserts that the fact that her work was cited b.1~----~ indicates 
that that her work "has been recognized as important and noteworthy by at least one of the world's 
leading researchers in the field." Again, although the above article co-authored byl I did 
cite to one of the Petitioner's articles, it does not indicate that the Petitioner's work is authoritative or 
otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. Researchers throughout a given field may 
cite other published works without the cited work being notably influential or serving as a foundational 
basis for their own work. The fact that the Petitioner performed moderately valuable research and 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 Although she notes that her work has been cited by researchers around the world, the Petitioner did not establish how 
being cited by international researchers shows that her research is considered to be majorly significant. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 The paper's citation index lists a total of 45 citations to various sources. 
6 
received a reference to her work does not inherently demonstrate a contribution of major significance 
to the field, as this activity is inherent to the Petitioner's occupation. 
The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's patents, but determined that there was no evidence 
submitted to determine that they have garnered widespread commentary or use. On appeal, the 
Petitioner emphasizes that the patents, and associated research, have been cited 31 times by scholars 
from all over the world, and further notes that her patented 1 I ad ! tube used during 
operations to flushl la surgical region an~ ~ as required, has also been cited 
by a subsequent patented technology in the field. She claims that these citations to her patents and 
associated research demonstrate that her contributions have been substantially relied on by subsequent 
research in the field, and thus demonstrate that they constitute original contributions of major 
significance in the field as contemplated by this criterion. 
In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner argues that her 
groundbreaking patented research was selected for publication by a premier journal and has been 
widely cited, she did not demonstrate how the patents already qualify as contributions of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The record, for example, does not 
reflect that her patents resulted in widespread usage or influenced the field of ophthalmology in a 
majorly, significant manner. Here, the significant nature of her patents has yet to be determined. 
Finally, the Petitioner relies on a testimonial froml !s, Professor of 
Clinical Ophthalmology at the University ofl l which she 
claims attests to her majorly significant contributions. In general, the letter recounts the Petitioner's 
research and findings, indicates their publications in journals, and points to the citations of her work 
by others. Although it reflects the novelty of her work, it does not sufficiently articulate how her 
research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their im act on the field rises 
to the level of major significance required by this criterion. For instance stated that the 
Petitioner's work in identifying! I targets fo .._ ___________ _,injury resulted 
m a pa er that was cited nine times by "several foreign experts inclusive of those from the USA." 
While noted that this research "has furthered the study and treatment in clinical 
especially in the U.S.A.," he did not offer any examples of further ---..,......,-.,....,...-----,--.,.,....... research in this area or describe how the Petitioner's work in this area has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarl whil claimed that the Petitioner "is the expert of the diagnosis and 
treatment o L---------r-------,. ___ _J surgery, especially specializing in the 
postoperative reconstruction o ...._ _____ __,tumors," he did not supplement his letter with 
specific examples corroborating this statement or otherwise showing how the Petitioner impacted the 
field in a significant way. 
Furthermore, the letter speculates generally on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
proposes that she will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. I I opined that 
if the Petitioner one day "has the opportunity to enter the USA, she definitely will make good use of 
her experience and proficiency to enhance the medical standard whether in the research institutes or 
in the medical schools." He did not elaborate or explain how her research to date has been applied in 
the field, and did not further discuss whether the Petitioner's research has affected previous 
procedures, let alone actual implementation in the field. While the letter shows promise in the 
7 
Petitioner's work, it does not establish how her work already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of her work 
has yet to be determined or measured. 
Here, the testimonial letter from I I does not contain specific, detailed information 
explaining the unusual influence or high impact the Petitioner's research or work has had on the overall 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was (1) leading or 
critical; (2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the 
overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be 
apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The 
Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization 
or establishment as a whole. For the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that her role as the Associate Chief Physician for the Department of 
Ophthalmology at the I I Hos pi tall I University in China was leading or critical for 
that organization. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner initially submitted an employment 
verification from the hospital affirming her position and stating that she had been employed by the 
hospital since July 2007, along with a hospital organizational chart. She also supplemented the record 
with evidence of her participation in volunteer clinics and trainings as well as various presentations. 
Additionally, she submitted evidence in support of the claimed distinguished reputation of the hospital. 
The Director found the initial evidence insufficient, and issued an RFE requesting additional evidence 
in the form of letters from the Petitioner's current or former employers or trainers with personal 
knowledge of the significance of her leading or critical role, as well as evidence to assist in determining 
whether the organizations or establishments for which the Petitioner claimed to have performed a 
leading or critical role have distinguished reputations. In response, the Petitioner submitted a 
"Certificate" from the hospital dated August 5, 2020, which provided a general overview of her 
position. The Petitioner also submitted an organizational chart for the hospital and two documents 
11 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
12 Id; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
8 
titled "Certificate from Joint Conference Office for Standardized Residency Training ofl~--~ 
and "Notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the Issuance of the 
Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors inl I 
The Director found the Petitioner's evidence insufficient to satisfy this criterion. In denying the 
petition, the Director declined to acknowledge the certificate issued by the hospital, as it post-dated 
the filing of the petition. The Director determined that t~e certificate issued by the Joint Conference 
Office for Standardized Residency Training of._ ____ _.]which indicated that the Petj~cmy served as 
an examiner for the completion of the standardized training of resident doctors inl~----- ~_from April 
2014 to April 2017, and the notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the 
Issuance of the Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors irj O I lacked 
sufficient detail to show that her role was leading or critical. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determinations regarding the deficiencies in 
the certificate issued by the Joint Conference Office for Standardized Residency Training ofl I 
or the notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the Issuance of the 
Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors inl I Rather, she challenges the 
Director's failure to consider the certificate issued by th~ I Hospital I I university, 
arguing that it should have been considered as the content of the document discusses the Petitioner's 
employment history and role at the hospital. We agree that the document warrants consideration under 
this criterion; however, as discussed below, it is insufficient to demonstrate that she performed in a 
leading or critical role for the hospital. 13 
Preliminarily, we note that both the certificate and the organizational chart from the hospital are not 
signed by an individual claiming personal knowledge of her role; rather, both documents are merely 
stamped with the hospital seal. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(g)(l) (providing that evidence of experience shall 
consist of letters from the employer). As a result, we are unable to determine from whom the 
information was provided, and to what extent the writer was familiar with the Petitioner's role and 
associated duties at the hospital. There is no indication that the information contained in these 
documents reflects firsthand knowledge of an employer or trainer familiar with the Petitioner's role at 
her current employer. 
Moreover, this certificate did not provide sufficient detail regarding the Petitioner's role at thel I 
I IHospita~ I University. It states simply that she hegan her emnlo]ment with the hospital 
in 2007, served as a visiting scholar at the University ofi~ ______ __. in from 2014 -2015, 
and is currently the "Deputy Chief Physician of the Department of Ophthalmology and Ocular 
Oncology." The certificate did not indicate where the Petitioner's role fit within the overall hierarchy 
of thd I Hospital o~ I University, so as to demonstrate that it was a "leading" position 
within the organization. Moreover, the organizational chart submitted by the Petitioner does little to 
clarify her position within the organization's hierarchy, as it lists the Petitioner's position several tiers 
below the hospital's President and general departments. Specifically, her position is placed under the 
13 We exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 l&N Dec. 884 
(AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial 
decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. 
9 
'---,,----------------'Department, which appears to be a sub-department of the 
Department of Oncology. 
Furthermore, while the certificate indicates that the Petitioner is involved in the coordination of clinical 
and administrative affairs for 17 5 ophthalmologists and is in charge of the medical education and 
research of the Department of Orbital and Ocular Oncology, she has not provided evidence sufficient 
to show that these duties and responsibilities were critical for the I I Hospital I I 
University as a whole. The submitted documentation, therefore, does not establish that the Petitioner's 
role was "leading" based on her title, placement in the organization, or her duties, nor does the 
Petitioner provide information sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's duties and responsibilities 
were of significant importance to the organization, to the extent that her role was deemed critical. 
Additionally, we note that the certificate identifies her position as the "Deputy Chief Physician of the 
Department of Ophthalmology and Ocular Oncology," in contrast to the organizational chart (and the 
Petitioner's own assertions) which indicate that she is currently the "Associate Chief Physician of the 
Department of Clinical Treatment Technology." The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the 
record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Moreover, both the certificate and the organizational chart indicate that she currently holds the 
respective positions. Because this criterion requires evidence that she "has performed" in a leading or 
critical role in the past, we cannot determine whether she has satisfied the plain language of this 
criterion absent evidence confirming the date of her appointment to the claimed position and/or the 
length of time she has spent in this role. This evidentiary deficiency, coupled with the discrepancy 
with her job titles, farther precludes a determination that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 14 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
14 We acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of evidence in support of the assertion that thd I HospitalO 
~-~!University is a organization with a distinguished reputation, including an excerpt of a document titled "Best Eye 
Hospital: Top 100 Most Influential Ophthalmology Hospitals in 2016 (with list)" from the website www.askCI.com, a ~ut froml l's Department of Ophthalmology website, a U.S. News & World Report article on 
l___J University, and an excerpt from an article titled "Honor rolls of best hospitals in China released" published in the 
Journal of Hospital Management and Health Policy in! 12017. As the Petitioner has not established that she 
performed in a leading or critical role, further analysis of the reputation of the hospital serves no meaningful purpose. 
10 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2024 In Re: 34630076 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only the authorship of scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and the leading 
or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the 
Beneficiary meets four additional criteria, relating to awards, published material about her, original 
contributions, and high salary. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that the Beneficiary satisfies the salary 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 1 The Petitioner has therefore overcome the basis for denial of 
the petition through the Beneficiary's fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze 
the Beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality ofthe evidence to determine ifthey establish 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim in the field and that she is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 The record includes compensation data from sources such as the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center and U.S. Bureau 
of Labor Statistics indicating that the Beneficiary has received a high salary relative to others working in the field. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2024 In Re: 33387561 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the 
ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by providing 
sufficient evidence that he judged the work of others in the field and authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field in a professional or trade publication or major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, including the leading or 
critical role with a distinguished organization criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He asserts that 
the Director erred in determining that he did not meet the plain language of these two criteria. 
As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality ofthe evidence in the context ofa final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained national or 
international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing ofthe organization or establishment. To meet this 
criterion, the person must establish that they have performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in significantly important 
ways to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
2 
department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contended before the Director that he performed in leading or critical roles for the 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion 
concluding that the record lacked sufficient evidence that he held a leading role or that he had 
contributed in a significantly important way to the organization's activities or a division or department 
within the organization. Based on our de novo review of the record, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not provide evidence sufficient to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not sufficiently consider the significance of his 
responsibilities and contributions to the while employed in the transplant 
research department. For instance, he points to the two employment verification letters submitted with 
the petition that describe in detail the Petitioner's critical role conducting necessary work for all 
clinical trials running in the clinical department. The letters also indicated that due to the Petitioner's 
published work that "grabbed the attention" of a company, the department finalized a partnership with 
that company in order to start the first clinical trial in the Untied States to evaluate the role ofl I 
in inhibiting the fibrosis of transplant organs. The testimonial letters highlight the Petitioner's critical 
role in the transplant research department at _________ a top ranked hospital in the 
United States with a distinguished reputation. 
For the foregoing reasons, we agree with the Petitioner that, more likely than not, he meets the plain 
language requirements for this criterion through performing critical roles for an entity that possesses 
a distinguished reputation, and the Director erred in concluding otherwise. We withdraw this aspect 
of the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. 
Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
(vi), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of the evidence ofrecord. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for the handful of individuals at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated 
by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 
see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence, evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
3 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10742249 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 16, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an interactive multimedia producer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or satisfaction of at least three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indi~ployment as the founder and chief executive officer for I I I lin L____J Illinois. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish 
that he received a major, internationally recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), and that he did not satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioners argues that he received a one-time achievement and, in 
the alternative, meets an additional criterion, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 1 After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he garnered a 
major, internationally recognized award or satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Moreover, although we agree with the Director that the Petitioner complied with the judging criterion, 
we do not concur with the Director's decision regarding the membership criterion, discussed later. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
At the outset, the record contains sufficient documentation establishing his receipt of a 2018 I } 
Award jn the category of'I j t, for I r I I' that includes a .... p_h_o-to_g_ra_p_h_of_a_t_ro_p_h_Y._r_e_fl_ec-t-in-g-th ..... e 
Petitioner as a named recipient. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that al !Award 
qualifies as a major, internationally recognized award for the reasons discussed below. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from .... ! ____ I co-founder and CEO of .... l _____ ..... l(parent 
company to th~ I Awards), who stated: 
1 Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 
n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at * 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y . Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiffs claims to 
be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The D A wards honor the talented agencies, brands, industry and creative leaders 
the very best and most innovative work onl,_ ____ _.l channels, campaigns,! I 
and I L Al IA ward is considered the most internationally prestigious 
award for excellence inl I I I accurately called the I I 
A wards the 'I I' 
Further, the Petitioner presented additional letters from I I who proclaimed that the 
1 ~ wards are considered the most internationally prestigious award for excellence in I I 
I I often referred to as the I J "2 ( emphasis in original). Moreover, he 
offered letters from other individuals who opined that "[t]he most prestigious award in the world 
recognizing the best and most innovative work o platforms is Thd IAwards,"3 
"[ w ]hen it comes to recognizing the interactiveL...--,----,-J content inl ~' there is g 
no awards organization more prestigious than Th....___--.--,Awards, which are known as the 
I oJ I 1"4 "[t]hd IAward is the world's most prestigi~us award for excellence i 
._ __ ____._ content, akin to the I I for the I I space,") and "[a] I I Award is like 
receiving an Oscar or a Grammy and the international recognition it confers is invaluable for the award 
recipient's career."6 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots of a 2010 article entitled, I I' from I I reflecting '-t-he-e-st_a_b_li-sh-m-en_t_of-. -th_e_, 
awards in 2008 to honor users of I f and then later expanded to otherl I platfo~ 
record also contains several website articles covering the awards ceremony and referencing thel__J 
A wards as the However, the Petitioner submitted articles that contradict or 
question the stature or recognition of the Awards. S ecificall the Petitioner resented a blo 
from nytimes.com indicatin& that'~-----::~--------------:,----;::::======:;----~ I J Further, in a 2016 article from blastingnews.com, tated that 
":----------:-----:--------:-----:---------:-----:--------:-------:-------;:::==;--------:------:--------:----:-----:------' signifying that 
the creator of the awards does not believe that the I f Awards have reached a level of prestige or 
prominence as the as claimed b others. Moreover the Petitioner offered screenshots from a 
partial article entitled, '~----------------~ from balancecareers.com that 
ranked thel I Awards as seventh, which is not representative of a major, internationally 
recognized award. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) provides that "[s]uch evidence shall include evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major internal[ly] recognized award)." Further, the House Report 
specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement. 7 See H.R. Rep. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in l 990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. Moreover, 
~-----_,marketing and paitnerships manager, and_l ____ ____.I marketing and pa1inerships 
senior director <;W.1,1....:>.1..LLL.1.1'1....LLL..l.!.IJ..u.i....i........ ___ ~ 
3 See letter fro executive producer for._,! __ ...., r------,.~~___.r--~=-::..:::.; 4 See letter from1--------r-1 E tor~----' 
5 See letter from ____ .....,senior content marketing strateg;=i~st~t~o-rl __ ~----~ 
6 See letter from~---~ director of digital marketing fol._ _________ __. 
7 Although in the 0-1 nonimmigrant extraordinary ability context, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(iii)(A) provides 
an example of the Nobel Prize as an example of a major, internationally recognized award. 
3 
we have consistently recognized other examples of a one-time achievement include the Pulitzer Prize, 
an Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. Further, we must look to Congress' intent that 
"admission under this category is to be reserved for that small percentage of individuals who have 
risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." Id. Thus, consistent with legislative history, a one­
time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly , with only a small handful of awards qualifying 
as major, internationally recognized awards. 
In addition, the selection of Nobel Laureates , the example provided by Congress indicated above, is 
reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a 
familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope 
and internationally recognized, not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. 
h the letters and media articles presented by the Petitioner opine or refer to thel I Awards 
F..__--,. __ ....,..._...,.... __ ~ neither the letters nor the articles explain, justify, or demonstrate how 
___ Awards enjoy a similar level of recognition or status as the Academy Awards, to be 
considered a one-time achievement or major, internationally recognized award. In fact, as mentioned 
above, some the articles indicate lesser recognition or standing, as evidenced byl ~uote in 
the blastingnews .com article. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that receipt of aL__J Award 
qualifies as a one-time achievement , nor are we persuaded that the top award in each and every field 
qualifies as a one-time achievement. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the I !Awards 
are familiar with the public at large, such as Olympic Medals, Nobel Prizes, Pulitzer Prizes, and 
Academy Awards. Furthermore, the fact that a major, internationally recognized award, such as an 
Olympic Medal, may not exist in a particular field does not mean that we should diminish the 
impressive nature of the one-time achievement and accept a lesser one as a major, internationally 
recognized award. In cases where an alien cannot obtain a one-time achievement , including instances 
where it is not available in a field, "[ a ]n alien can also qualify on the basis of a career of acclaimed 
work in the field" by satisfying three of the ten categories of evidence . See H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Moreover , awards that may be internationally recognized in the field do not 
necessarily demonstrate that they are also major or consistent with one-time achievements. In those 
instances , the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for an alien to submit lesser internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
In the case here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the I , !Awards enjoy broad, significant, 
and international recognition and receives a similar level of attention or popularity by the general 
public comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as Nobel Prizes, Olympic Medals, 
and Oscars. Although the Petitioner did not show that hd.__~IAward qualifies as a one-time 
achievement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he did demonstrate that it meets the requirements for a lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
4 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As discussed above, the Petitioner established that his DA ward satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion without identifying the qualifying 
memberships and explaining his determination. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 8 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), we will withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion at the time of filing based 
on memberships with: 1) Real Time Academy of Short Form and Sciences (RTASFS), 2) Telly 
Awards Judging Council (TAJC), 3) the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences (IADAS), 
and 4) the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts (AIVA). For each one, the Petitioner submitted 
similar letters mirroring the regulatory language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii): 
• Membership in [RTASFS] is by invitation only. In order to be considered for membership in 
in [RTASFS], members must demonstrate outsrndingl professional achievements and 
recognition as industry leaders as determined by the Awards' executive board. 9 
• In order to be considered for membership in [TAJC], members must demonstrate outstanding 
professional achievements and recognition as industry leaders. 10 
• Membership to the IADAS is by invite only. In order to be considered for membership in the 
IADAS, members must demonstrate outstanding professional achievements and must be 
verified as experts and leaders in their peer group as determined by experience and expertise 
in their field. 11 
• Membership to AIV A is by invitation only and based on a nomination by a founding or current 
member of the Academy plus demonstrated outstanding achievement in the field and 
recognition as an industry leader. Our Membership Committee, comprised of an international 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
9 See letter (July l;.::2:.i.., ..:::2.::...0 l:;.;:9:..:..)..;:;;fr:..::o..:c:m;:i.1 ========-----~ 
10 See letter froml ~ for TAJC. 
11 See letter from~I ----------~lfor IADAS. 
5 
panel of experts, reviews all nominations and/or applications to membership before extending 
an invitation to join the AIV A. 12 
Although the letters repeat the regulatory language, they do not point to any governing authority 
establishing that membership with any of the associations require outstanding achievements, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 
1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d41 (2d. Cir. 1990);Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 
188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.) (repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof). Further, as it relates to RTASFS and TAJC, the Petitioner did not submit 
any supporting evidence relating to the membership requirements, such as the bylaws or other official 
membership documentation, to corroborate the letters' assertions. Instead, the Petitioner provided 
evidence relating to awards and competitions from the associations. 
Regarding IADAS, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from the association's website indicating that 
"[m]embership to [IADAS] is invite-only," and "[i]f you would like to request an invite or be 
considered for future involvement, please use the form by clicking on the link below." However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the screenshot reflects the membership requirements for IADAS, 
nor did he show that requesting an invite by filling out a form establishes the requirement of 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Similarly, as it relates to AIVA, the record contains a screenshot from the association's website 
indicating that "[ m ]embership in the AIV A will be opened to qualified individuals to further the 
mission of the AIV A," and members will be invited to join based on: 1) nomination by a founding 
member and approved by the membership committee, 2) nomination by another member and approved 
by the membership committee, 3) nomination by the AIV A as a result of being part of a winning entry 
in an affiliated award or recognition program sanctioned by the AIVA, or 4) applying directly through 
the website to provide credentials and industry related experience for review and approval by the 
membership committee. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that nomination by AIV A members or 
directly applying shows that outstanding achievements are an essential condition for membership, and 
that the membership committee is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his membership in associations 
that require outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
------;::::.=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-.::-;::::=-------~ 
12 See letter from._l ____ _.I ~ .... ____ __,I for AIV A. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner documented his 
experience and work in the immersive reality field, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon on his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 16, 2024 In Re: 34286595 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
Specifically, the Director denied the petition because the Petitioner did not identify what regulatory 
criteria she met or how any of her evidence should be applied to those requirements . The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of 
the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this 
matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten following criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
(i) Documentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor; 
(ii) Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields; 
(iii) Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation; 
(iv) Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which classification 
is sought; 
(v) Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field; 
(vi) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media; 
(vii) Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases; 
(viii) Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation; 
(ix) Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field; or 
(x) Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
2 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner failed to specifically identify the criteria in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
under which she wished USCIS to consider each form of evidence. If it is the Petitioner's contention 
that she meets a particular criterion, it remains her responsibility to specifically identify under which 
criterion USCIS should consider the evidence. She did not provided such a statement or argument in 
the initial filing, in her response to the Director's request for evidence, nor now on appeal. The burden 
is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility. It is not USCIS 's responsibility to infer or second-guess 
the intended criteria. Had USCIS attempted to apply the evidence in a manner the Petitioner did not 
intend, and subsequently found her ineligible, that would serve as one possible basis for an appeal. 
We offer additional information the Petitioner can apply to a future petition if she decides to refile 
seeking this same immigrant classification. This classification first requires a foreign national to 
explain which of the regulatory criteria they claim to meet listed above in Section I (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). In addition to that explanation, the filing party must inform the Director of how 
they should relate each of the submitted documents to each of the criteria he or she attempts to satisfy. 
If this process remains unclear to the Petitioner, she may wish to visit the USCIS website that offers 
some basic information about filing for this immigrant petition. For instance, the two following 
websites offer some additional insight: 
• Checklist ofRequired Initial Evidence for Form 1-140 (for informational purposes only), U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (Aug. 19, 2024), https://www.uscis.gov/forms/filing­
guidance/ checklist-of-required-initial-evidence- for-form-i-140- for-informational-purposes­
only. 
• Under the Submitting Evidence section, Petition Filing and Processing Procedures for Form 
1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (July 
9, 2024), https://www.uscis.gov/forms/all-forms/petition-filing-and-processing-procedures­
for-form-i-140-immigrant-petition-for-alien-workers. 
As a result, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 17, 2024 In Re: 34638101 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a ceramics artist, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference 
(EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . Successful petitioners for 
U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met the requested category's initial evidentiary requirements. But, in her final merits 
determination, the Director ultimately found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's claimed 
extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director "conflated" the two steps 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) uses to analyze extraordinary ability and 
disregarded evidence of his acclaim and recognition in his field. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we agree with the Petitioner that the Director overlooked evidence. But, because we deem the 
oversights harmless after reviewing the overlooked evidence, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized 
award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either standard, USCIS must then make a final merits determination as to whether 
the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very top. Amin v. Mayorkas, 
24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (holding that USCIS' two-step analysis "is consistent with the 
governing statute and regulation");2 see generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Ghanaian national and citizen, earned a bachelor of fine arts 
degree in ceramics in his home country in 2010. For about the next nine years, he worked for the 
Ghanaian university that issued his degree as both a principal technician and research assistant. As a 
principal technician, he oversaw all technical work in the school's ceramic arts department. 
In 2019, the Petitioner obtained a student visa to study for a master of fine arts (MFA) degree in the 
United States. He later graduated as his school's valedictorian. His ceramic artwork has garnered 
awards, and he has exhibited his work at various U.S. galleries. The Petitioner stated: "My artistry 
has wonderstrnck experts in my field and captured the attention ofthe public due to my usage ofmixed 
media materials that are not at all associated with ceramics." The record shows his work contains 
traditional materials from his Ghanaian heritage, including _______ ______ 
__________ But some of his pieces also include non-typical, modem materials such 
as nuts and bolts. The Petitioner stated: "The purposeful way thel lis incorporated into my 
work ( checkered, striped, jig sawed, or woven) and the histories associated with the I 
combine to effectively communicate the complexities of the [African] diaspora: separation, fear, 
rejection, love, nostalgia, racism, and appropriation." 
The Petitioner now works as a U.S. university lecturer, teaching classes in art appreciation, design, 
and ceramics. He states his intention to continue working in the ceramic arts field in this country. 
"Since I am one of the very few people who are breaking conceptual and material boundaries [in the 
field]," he states, "my continued employment in the U.S. will position the country at the forefront of 
[ceramic] industry advancement and innovation." 
The record does not show -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award. He therefore has to meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner met 
four evidentiary criteria regarding: 
• Published materials about him and his work in his field; 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has jurisdiction over the Petitioner's residence. 
2 I 
• His participation as a judge of others' work in the field; 
• His authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• The display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (vi), (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets three other evidentiary criteria. But, because he 
satisfied the requisite three requirements, we need not consider whether he meets more. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
We will next review the Director's final merits determination. 
B. The Final Merits Determination 
To establish extraordinary ability, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that they have sustained national or 
international acclaim and that their achievements have been recognized in their field, identifying them 
as one of that small percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). A petition's approval or denial should stem from the evidence's type and quality. 
Id. 
When determining final eligibility, USCIS should consider the petition in its entirety, weighing all 
evidence in the totality. Id. The Agency should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, 
even if it does not fit one of the regulatory criteria or does not serve as comparable evidence. Id. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner as "recognized" in his field. But the Director found 
insufficient evidence of acclaim and recognition placing him among the small percentage at the field's 
very top. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director misanalysed his case. As previously indicated, 
USCIS uses a two-step analysis when determining extraordinary ability. USCIS first determines 
whether a petitioner's proof objectively meets the parameters of at least three evidentiary 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If so, the Agency then conducts a final merits 
determination, ascertaining whether the record, as a whole, demonstrates a petitioner's sustained 
acclaim and recognition for achievements commensurate with one of that small percentage who has 
risen to their field's very top. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 391; see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B). 
The Petitioner argues that the Director's final merits determination "conflated" the two adjudicatory 
steps. He contends that, when considering his claimed extraordinary ability, the Director required 
evidence in each regulatory criterion to demonstrate the requisite amounts of acclaim and recognition. 
See Eguchi v. Kelly, No. 3:16-CV-1286-D, 2017 WL 2902667, *3 (N.D. Tex. July 7, 2017) ("[USCIS] 
... may not conflate the final merits question of whether the petitioner has reached the very top of his 
field ofendeavor ( and thus is an alien of extraordinary ability) with the procedural question ofwhether 
the petitioner has sufficiently submitted three types of evidence.") 
3 
But we do not interpret the Director's decision as combining the two adjudicatory steps. As the 
Petitioner argues, the Director's final merits decision discusses his claimed extraordinary ability by 
evidentiary criteria. For example, the decision finds that evidence of his membership in various 
ceramic arts organizations under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(ii) does not reflect sufficient acclaim or 
recognition in his field to demonstrate extraordinary ability. The decision continues to assess the 
Petitioner's purported extraordinary ability by reviewing evidence under each criterion, including 
proof of: published materials about him under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); his participation as a judge 
of others' work under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); etc. 
The Director's decision, however, does not expressly require each evidentiary criterion to reflect 
extraordinary ability. Rather, the decision merely uses the requirements to structure the evidence's 
review. See Amin, 24 F .4th at 394 ( affirming USCIS' denial of an extraordinary ability petition after 
"[t]he agency looked at each of the criteria [the petitioner] satisfied and explained why his 
accomplishments under each merited little weight in the overall assessment"). 
We agree with the Petitioner, however, that the Director overlooked evidence of his acclaim and 
recognition in his field. The Director's decision states: "Neither does the record establish that other 
professionals in the [Petitioner]' s field have relied on [his] works, such as by having widely 
implemented [his] technique in their own work." The Petitioner, in fact, submitted evidence that other 
artists have adopted his techniques. A letter from an art collector/former gallery owner states that 
three artists "have adopted [ the Petitioner]' s approach to pay tribute to their respective ethnicities to 
tell a story of diaspora." The Petitioner submitted copies of photographs of these artists' work and 
information about them. Also, a letter from another contemporary art collector cites a fourth emerging 
artist that the Petitioner purportedly influenced. Further, the Director did not discuss letters from art 
professors and others in the field asserting the Petitioner's extraordinary ability. 
A review of the overlooked evidence, however, does not demonstrate the Petitioner's claimed 
extraordinary ability in his field. See Amin, 24 F.4th 394 ("[W]e will not reverse an agency action due 
to a mistake where that mistake 'clearly had no bearing on ... the substance ofthe decision reached.'") 
(citations omitted); see generally Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 350 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing 
cases of harmless or scrivener's errors). As indicated above, the record identifies four artists who 
adopted the Petitioner's techniques. But the record does not establish that number, or the artists 
themselves, as significant in the field. 
Also, the letters on the Petitioner's behalf fall short of placing him at the field's very top. Most of the 
letters' authors have ties to universities where he has studied or taught, and the art collectors who 
provided statements have purchased some of his works. The record lacks sufficient independent, 
objective evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's claimed extraordinary ability. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(3) ("It is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim would have received recognition for their accomplishments 
well beyond the circle of their personal and professional acquaintances.") 
Some ofthe letters also qualify their praise for the Petitioner. The executive director ofan international 
ceramic arts organization stated that the group gave the Petitioner a multicultural fellowship award. 
The executive director said: "For a young artist, like [ the Petitioner], being selected is an impressive 
feat due to the competitive nature of the selection process." ( emphasis added). Also, the director of 
4 
the U.S. art school that awarded the Petitioner his MF A described him as "a rising star in the field of 
ceramics." ( emphasis added). These letters suggest that the Petitioner is extraordinary when compared 
to other young artists in his field or artists in early stages of their careers. But the letters do not 
establish his place at the field's very top. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) (defining the term "extraordinary 
ability"). 
After reviewing the entire record -including materials regarding the three additional evidentiary 
criteria the Petitioner claims to have met -we do not find that he has demonstrated his claimed 
extraordinary ability in his field. 
The Petitioner is a distinguished ceramic artist. In time, he may prove to have extraordinary ability in 
his field. For the foregoing reasons, however, he has not demonstrated sufficient acclaim and 
recognition placing him among the small percentage at the field's very top. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 386 
("[G]iven the lofty bar for extraordinary ability classifications, we cannot say that the agency acted 
arbitrarily when it determined that [a petitioner] was not 'extraordinary' but merely very good.") 
III. CONCLUSION 
After reviewing all the evidence in the aggregate, the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner's 
claimed extraordinary ability in his field. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 17, 2024 In Re: 34750620 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive in the financial technology industry, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, first preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "exceptional 
ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of 
their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one ofthe requested visa category's ten initial evidentiary criteria- two less than needed 
for a final merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in finding 
that he did not also satisfy evidentiary criteria regarding: 
• Published materials about him in his field; 
• His authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• His commandment of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in the 
field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), (ix). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter ofChrista's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has not met two additional evidentiary criteria. We will therefore dismiss 
the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized 
award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either standard, USCIS must then make a final merits determination as to whether 
the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese native and citizen, has served as an executive for an 
online retail company in his home country for about the past nine years. He oversees the company's 
financial technology services firm, which employs more than 8,900 people. Under the Petitioner's 
leadership, the firm has integrated artificial intelligence and "big data" technologies into its products, 
which include popular online payment and consumer credit applications. 
The Petitioner states his intent to continue working in the financial technology field in the United 
States. He says he has received two U.S. job offers and that his current employer's U.S. operations 
might employ him. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore meet at least three of the initial evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding of the Petitioner's submission of evidence of his 
participation as a judge of others' work in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We will next 
review the additional evidentiary requirements he claims to have met. The Petitioner must objectively 
satisfy the parameters of each regulatory criterion. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8). 
B. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[e ]vidence of [their] authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a pet1t10ner has authored 
scholarly articles in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). A scholarly article 
reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse and is written by a researcher 
or expert in the field. Id. Scholarly articles also generally undergo peer review by other experts in the 
field of specialization. Id. 
The Agency next determines whether a publication qualifies as a professional, major trade, or major 
media publication. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). In evaluating publications, 
relevant factors include: for professional journals or major trade publications, the intended audience; 
and, for major media, the circulation, readership, or viewership relative to other media in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of an article he wrote in 2023 for the China Banking and Insurance 
News. The article discusses integration of financial services into the Chinese agricultural industry. 
The Director concluded that the record did not demonstrate the article's distribution in a professional, 
major trade, or major media publication. The Director stated that "none of the informational materials 
suggest that the intended audience of the China Banking and Insurance News is tied to a specific 
profession or trade" or "offer any insight to the relative circulation or readership of China Banking 
and Insurance News." 
The Petitioner, however, has sufficiently established China Banking and Insurance News as a 
professional or major trade publication. The phrase "professional or major trade publications" 
"expressly refers to publications which are read by people in a particular profession or trade, rather 
than the population at large." Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5015 SJO (FMOx), 2007 WL 9229758, *6 
(C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007). The Petitioner submitted copies of online information identifying the China 
Banking and Insurance News as a nationwide, daily newspaper published Monday through Friday. 
Overseen by the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, the newspaper focuses on the 
banking and insurance sectors. Evidence shows that the newspaper's target audience constitutes 
banking and insurance professionals. Thus, the publication does not attract the Chinese population at 
large. The record therefore sufficiently identifies the newspaper as a professional or major trade 
publication. 
The record does not establish, however, the Petitioner's authorship of a scholarly article. Unlike a 
scholarly article, the Petitioner's newspaper piece contains little research or details and only generally 
and briefly discusses its topic. The article's primary purpose appears to be to market the financial 
services and products ofthe Petitioner's employer. The record also lacks evidence that peers reviewed 
the article or that others in the field cited the piece in their work. The record therefore does not 
establish the article as scholarly in nature. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his authorship of scholarly articles in his field. We will therefore 
affirm the Director's finding on this evidentiary criterion. 
C. High Salary or Significantly High Remuneration 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). USCIS evaluates petitioners working outside the United States, like the Petitioner, 
based on wage statistics or comparable evidence relevant to their work locations. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of original and online versions of his Chinese income tax records for 
2021 and 2022. The original records for 2021 list his total income -including both salary and stock­
related compensation -as 5,567,813.42 RMB, or about $782,060. The original records for 2022 
reflect total income of 7,787,602.62 RMB, or about $1,093,854. He also submitted copies of 2021 
salary guides for China. 
Considering only the Petitioner's salary income, the Director found insufficient evidence of his 
commandment of a high salary or significantly high remuneration for his services. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that the Director should have considered his stock compensation as part of his 
mcome. 
The salary guides provided by the Petitioner, however, do not indicate whether their income figures 
include both salaries and stock-related compensation. The Director assumed that the guides' incomes 
reflect only salaries. So, the Director disregarded the Petitioner's stock-related income. Nothing in 
the record indicates the guides' inclusion of stock-related compensation. The Director therefore 
reasonably considered only the Petitioner's salary. To have his stock-related income considered, the 
Petitioner must show that the incomes listed in the salary guides include stock compensation. 
Otherwise, he must provide data indicating how much stock-related income executives in China in 
positions similar to his typically receive. 
Also, although unaddressed by the Director, the Petitioner's tax records are inconsistent. While the 
copies of the original tax records state his total 2021 income as 5,567,813.42 RMB, the online records 
list salary and stock-related payments that year of only 5,063,413.42 RMB. Similarly, the copies of 
the original tax records state his total 2022 income as 7,787,602.62 RMB. But the online records show 
payments that year of only 6,855.256.22 RMB. Further, the Petitioner provided a letter from his 
employer stating that, beginning in 2020, he received an annual salary of 2,100,000 RMB. The online 
tax records for 2021, however, show his receipt of wages and a 553,000-RMB bonus, totaling 
2,326,165.52 RMB. The online tax records for 2022 similarly indicate wage payments of only 
1,870,057.14 RMB. The Petitioner has not explained these income discrepancies. See Matter ofHo, 
19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring petitioners to resolve inconsistencies with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies). The discrepancies cast doubt on the accuracy of 
the Petitioner's evidence and claimed income. 
The Director did not notify the Petitioner of these evidentiary inconsistencies. Thus, in any future 
filings in this matter, he must resolve the discrepancies with independent, objective evidence. See 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence of his commandment of a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration compared to others in his field. We will therefore affirm the Director's denial for 
this evidentiary criterion. 
4 
D. Published Materials 
The Petitioner also asserts his satisfaction ofthe evidentiary requirement regarding published materials 
about himself. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). But, to obtain a final merits determination, he needs 
to satisfy two more criteria. Thus, we need not reach and hereby reserve consideration ofhis appellate 
argument regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 
25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to 
their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining 
to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of two additional evidentiary criteria for the 
requested category. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678700 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who describes his job title as "biopsychosocial specialist,"1 seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
1 The Petitionerprovides the SOC (Standard Occupational Classification) code 11-9111, which corresponds to "Medical 
and Health Services Managers." 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning medical degrees at various universities in Venezuela, the Petitioner established an 
obstetrical/gynecological (OB/GYN) practice in !Venezuela in 2010, and worked at 
I !University Hospital also inl I In that practice, 
the Petitioner stated: "I designed my own approach model ... , which I named 'Biopsychosocial 
Evaluation."' The Petitioner stated that "biopsychosocial evaluation ... is structured to evaluate three 
aspects as follows: biological, psychological, and family-social," allowing for "a personalized action 
plan." The Petitioner entered the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor in August 2014. The 
Petitioner is not licensed to practice medicine in the United States.2 He does, however, hold several 
certifications and registrations in the health care field, as a medical assistant, surgical assistant, 
professional midwife, and medical sonographer. Since 2018, he has worked as a midwife and 
sonographer atl I inl I Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets five other criteria, relating to 
memberships, published material, participation as a judge, original contributions, and leading or 
2 In his initial statement, submitted with the petition, the Petitioner stated: "I will not rest until I obtain my MD license in 
this country so that I can fully pursue my profession and my passion." On appeal, the Petitioner states: "I am continuing 
my education to obtain a license as MD." The Petitioner does notspecifywhathaspreventedhim fromobtaininga license 
to practice medicine in the United States. 
2 
critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria relating 
to prizes and display, and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned.3 
The Petitioner cites his intention to continue working in the area of claimed extraordinary ability, 
stating: "To my understanding, this forms part of part of one of the ten categories." But such an 
intention relates to a separate requirement, at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5). 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, relating to 
authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a judge of the work of others. We will discuss the 
other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed several memberships under this criterion. He is an "Active Member" of the 
VenezuelanAssociationfortheAdvancementofScience(AsoVAC, or AsoVac ); an "Affiliated Member" 
of the Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Venezuela (SOGV); and an active member of the 
American College of Nurse Midwives (ACNM). As explained below, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner has not shown that the associations have sufficiently restrictive membership 
requirements. 
A translated letter from the secretary general of Aso V AC's Chapter reads, in part: 
Aso Vac accepts as members those professionals who complete a rigorous process of 
background screening where it is confirmed that the candidate is an individual who has 
exceptional achievements with research capabilities able to meet the provisions of 
Chapters V and VI of the Statutes of our organization .... 
. . . [ A ]11 the information submitted is evaluated by an Expert Committee composed of the 
most important scientists who are members of the association. 
Aso VAC's Statutes, also in the record, do not corroborate the above statement. The Statutes state: "In 
order to be an Active Member it is required to hold a Superior Education Degree and conduct research, 
promotion and diffusion activities of scientific and/or technical knowledge, and be so lventwith the yearly 
fee." The Statutes also describe a separatemembership category, "Honorary Members," "who desetVe 
this distinction owing to their scientific work." Nominations for honorary membership are to be submitted 
to "the National Steering Committee," whereas individuals seeking active membership "request their 
registration ... before the [local] Chapter Steering Committee." 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
3 
Aso VAC's governing documents do not establish that the association requires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, as a condition for active membership, and they 
do not corroborate claims that stricter requirements exist for the level of membership that the Petitioner 
holds. Participation in research and payment of membership dues are not outstanding achievements. We 
note that the record indicates that the Petitioner joined Aso V AC as an active member in November 2000, 
when he was still a medical student His admission at this early stage inhiscareerdoesnotreadilysuggest 
the exclusivity that the regulation requires. 
SOGV documents list the following requirements for affiliated membership: 
• A "Medical Doctor or Surgeon" degree, recognized by "the Venezuelan university authorities"; 
• Recognition as a specialist in OB/GYN, registered with the Venezuelan Medical Association; 
• Submission of a resume and "the Deontological Certificate issued by the corresponding Medical 
Association"; 
• Completion of a three-year "postgraduate course on Obstetrics and Gynecology"; 
• A letter of intention to become a member; 
• Sponsorship by two full members; 
• Up-to-date payment of Medical Association fees; 
• Completion of "the Medical Census Form"; and 
• Payment of registration fees. 
The Petitioner did not establish that any of these requirements, which include what appear to be basic 
professional credentials, amount to outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Regarding the Petitioner's active membership in ACNM, that organization's bylaws show no substantive 
requirement for active membership except an active or past credential as a certified midwife or certified 
nurse midwife. The Petitioner has not established that these certifications are outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, rather than basic credentials for the occupation. 
Beyond the above points, the record shows that the Petitioner did not join ACNM until December 30, 
2021, several weeks after the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) on December 8, 2021. The 
Petitionermustmeetalleligibilityrequirements as of the petition'sfilingdate. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
In this case, the Petitioner filed his petition on November 15, 2021. Other issues aside, this December 
2021 membership cannot retroactively establish eligibility as of the November 2021 filing date. 
Also in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a membership certificate from the Society of 
Diagnostic Medical Sonography (SDMS). The Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to show the 
SDMS's membership requirements, and therefore he has not established that the SDMS requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Furthermore, the certificate indicates that the Petitioner joined the SDMS in 2021, but did not specify the 
exact date. Therefore, the document does not indicate that the Petitioner was already a member when he 
filed the petition in November 2021. Because the burden of proof is on the Petitioner, we will not presume 
that he joined the SDMS before the filing date. We note that he did not claim SDMS membership when 
he first filed the petition. 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the memberships described above meet 
the regulatory requirements to satisfy the criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his 
memberships are qualifying, but cites no specific evidence to show that the Director erred in reaching the 
above conclusion. The Petitioner does ref er to "Chapter V, Article 28" of Aso V AC's Statutes, but the 
cited passage lists the membership categories, and states no requirements for active membership other 
than a qualifying college degree and involvement in research, while indicating that applications for active 
membership are filed with local chapters. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
An article on the subject of I appeared in Ciencia Medica al Dia. The article 
quotes the Petitioner, who stated that exercise offers a number of benefits but cautioned that some 
circumstances may limit physical activity. The Petitioner's medical specialty is relevant to the subject of 
the article, but the article is not about the Petitioner, relating to his work in the field. Rather, the article, 
including the Petitioner's quotation, consists of general advice and recommendations. Also, the Petitioner 
has not established that Ciencia Medica al Dia qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or 
other major media. The Petitioner must establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared 
to other publications of its kind. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit circulation or page view data. A printout from the 
magazine's Face book page shows 7854 followers; the Petitioner provided no comparative evidence to 
show that this is a high number for that type of publication in Venezuela. 
The host ofthel !Television program stated that the Petitioner"was invited to 
this prestigious program as a SPECIAL GUEST on multiple occasions" ( emphasis in original), first on a 
monthly basis, but then weekly "due to the constant and countless calls from our audience." The 
Petitioner submitted photographs from the program, but no transcripts or other materials to establish the 
full content of the broadcast material. The regulation does not simply require evidence that published 
material exists; the Petitioner must submit the published material itself. In the case ofradio or television 
broadcasts, a transcript will suffice. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Because the 
Petitioner has not provided a transcript of the broadcast material, he has not shown that his television 
appearances constituted published material about him, rather than, as above, general medical advice. 
Also, the Petitioner has not provided the dates of the broadcasts, asrequiredby 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We note that the three submitted photographs all appear to show the same broadcast. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence to show that the submitted materials meet the regulatory 
requirements to satisfy the criterion. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion. 
The Director therefore concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asks that the Director's conclusion be "reconsidered," but he does not explain 
how that conclusion is in error. 
5 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted two letters under this criterion. The first letter is from onel l a 
physician who studiedatthe same medical school as the Petitioner. Some ofl lletterconsists 
of general asse1iions about the importance of the Petitioner's work, without sufficient details to identify 
specific contributions by the Petitioner and explain how they are of major significance. For example, he 
states that the Petitioner's "innovative medical unit for the care of pregnant adolescents ... makes 
available resources which did not previously exist in health centers, such as interactive workshops." This 
statement does not explain how the Petitioner's innovation is of majorsignificance in the field, as opposed 
to more localized impmiance to a small number of patients in direct contact with the Petitioner or the 
center that employed him. Statistics about improved patient outcome at one hospital do not show 
implementation of the Petitioner's work beyond that one facility, and the letter does not establish that the 
Petitioner's work was solely or primarily responsible for the improvements. 
___ described and praised the Petitioner's "great Bio-psycho-social Assessment model that 
provides solutions to pregnantwomen,"buthe did not showthatthismodelhas been of major significance 
to the field as a whole, rather than the Petitioner's own patients. Furthermore, I claims no 
particular expertise in OB/GYN or biopsychosocial evaluation. Rather, he describes his specialty as 
"Obesity, Nutrition and Anti-Aging Medicine." Because he and the Petitioner practice different 
specialties, it is not readily evident that I possesses sufficient knowledge in the Petitioner's 
field to evaluate the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
The second letter is from one I I "a specialist in Gynecology and Obstetrics [ and] 
Sonographer," specialties that more closel conform to the Petitioner's own areas of expertise. As with 
I I letter, however did not establish the significance of the Petitioner's w01k 
beyond one institution. ___ __,stated that "the Bio-psycho-social Assessment of Pregnant Patients 
[is] a model used in the most important hospital in the city of I Implementation at one 
hospital does not show field-wide significance. She also noted the Petitioner's "offering of free 
sonography courses for postgraduate residents." I did not explain how these activities were 
of major significance throughout the field, rather than locally in We acknowledge her assertion that 
there is a shortage of trained sonographers, but the record does not show that the Petitioner's work in this 
area has significantly alleviated that shortage, andl I did not explain how providing training in 
existing technology constitutes an original contribution. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: 
Evidence must demonstrate that the beneficiary's contributions are not only originaL but 
that they are of major significance in the field. The evidence does not demonstrate the 
major significance of the petitioner's original contributions. The letters praise the 
petitioner's work as a physician and as a great OB/GYN but they do not show major 
contributions as a Biopsychosocial Specialist in the field of biological, psychologicaL and 
family-social and contributions related to scientific, scholarly, artistic or business fields. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his prior work in OB/GYN and sonography should not be viewed 
separately from his work with biopsychosocial evaluation. This objection, however, does not establish 
the claimed major significance ofbiopsychosocial evaluation. The Petitioner states that he developed the 
technique, but he has not submitted evidence of its widespread adoption by others or otherwise shown its 
major significance. The Petitioner claims that his biopsychosocial evaluations reduced local mmiality 
rates, but he does not establish that this reduction spread to a larger area, or that the rates have stayed low; 
the provided statistics span the years 2010 to 2014, years before the petition's filing date. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims to have satisfied the requirements of this criterion through his work as a physician 
in the OB/GYN Service of 4 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown his roles to have been leading or critical. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that political conditions in Venezuela prevented him from receiving 
significant recognition, whereas, he contends, "any developed country would have awarded [him] with 
recognition of the highest honor." 
The Petitioner submitted background materials aboutl but he did not claim to have performed 
in a critical role for the entire hospital. Because his role was focused on the OB/GYN Service, he must 
show that that department or division has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that I IOB/GYN 
Service, in particular, has more than a local reputation. Without showing that the department or division 
has a distinguished reputation, more detailed discussion of the nature of his role within that department 
or division would serve no practical purpose in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
4 The Petitioner does not, on appeal,pursue an earlier claim that his work with the localOsectionofthe Venezuelan 
Red Cross also constituted a critical role. 
7 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's colleagues 
in Venezuela regard him as a skilled physician who has helped many patients, but much of the 
Petitioner's evidence indicates at most a degree ofrecognition within the State ore=J He had been 
in the United States for over seven years at the time of filing, but the record does not establish that the 
U.S. medical community has adopted his biopsychosocial evaluation. He satisfied two of the threshold 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but neither of those criteria includes any intrinsic requirement of, or 
reference to, acclaim or recognition. Rather, he judged the work of medical students and published 
the results of medical research, both activities which appear to be routine in academia rather than 
privileges reserved for the most acclaimed professionals in the field. While the Petitioner has shown 
himself to be an able and dedicated physician in Venezuela, and has found ways to contribute in the 
United States without a license to practice medicine, he has not shown that his work has had a 
widespread and lasting impact on his field, and he has not otherwise established the sustained national 
or international acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 18, 2024 In Re: 33767233 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a medical cosmetologist, beauty expert, and health services manager, seeks first 
preference immigrant classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
also allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims that she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability based on her medical 
education and years of experience as a medical cosmetologist, beauty expert, and health services 
manager. At the start of her career, the Petitioner managed a medical facility where she, along with 
other medical professionals, performed medical procedures. The Petitioner eventually changed her 
area ofpractice to become a medical cosmetologist, which involved providing non-surgical, injection­
based treatments to patients, including those with facial deformities. The Petitioner continued to gain 
experience with injection of dermal fillers and eventually developed a proprietary technique for 
administering these products, later conducting training programs and master classes through which 
she passed on her knowledge and techniques to other medical professionals. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established her receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that she meets the seven regulatory criteria that are 
summarized below: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; and 
2 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary or remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that she has participated as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record supports this determination. 
The Director concluded, however that the Petitioner did not establish that she met any ofthe remaining 
criteria that she claimed, namely, the six criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), (v), (viii), and 
(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets at least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for 
the requested classification. She contends that the Director overlooked or disregarded certain evidence 
and applied requirements that are not indicated by the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services policy. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least two additional criteria. 
First, we will address the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence showing 
that the Petitioner made original contributions of major significance in her field. The record shows 
that in the course of work as a medical cosmetologist the Petitioner created a methodology for 
administering full-face Botox, which she titled I I The Petitioner explained that by 
developing her own methodology she created "an algorithm for selecting amounts ofproduct, injection 
sites and hand positioning technique." The record shows that the Petitioner applied for and was 
granted a patent by the Russian Federation for her invention of a"[m ]ethod for rejuvenating facial and 
neck tissues in patients with signs of hypertonicity of depressor muscles causing aging." Other 
documents concerning this criterion include letters from medical practitioners in the dermatology and 
medical cosmetology fields who describe and list the benefits ofusing the Petitioner's I I 
methodology in their respective practices, explaining that they received training in the use of this 
methodology through a masterclass or through professional training courses taught by the Petitioner 
in clinics where aesthetic medical treatments are offered. In addition, the Petitioner provided a 
sampling of medical spas and clinics that feature and advertise their use of the Petitioner's I I I Imethodology for their clientele. In sum, we find that the evidence submitted is sufficient to 
show that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner also provided documentation to show that she satisfied the requirements of the criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires a showing of the Petitioner's performance in a 
leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. Evidence pertaining to this 
criterion includes a detailed statement from I I an executive at the _____ I I, who ex lained that she worked with the Petitioner and can attest to the Petitioner's 
contributions to affiliate that manufacturers Botox, a botulinum toxin, 
and Juvederm, an injectable filler. Ms. highlighted the critical role ofl I "hierarchy 
of consultants, mentors, and trainers" in increasing its sales by teaching professionals how to use the I loroducts. She also outlined the Petitioner's long-standing relationship withl Iwhere 
she assumed increasingly more significant roles since 2009, starting as a consultant, then advancing 
to roles as an adviser and mentor in which she trained and certified doctors in the use of 
products, and ultimately receiving the designation of ann _____ which Ms. 
described as "the highest distinction among hysicians" and limited to approximately 20 
doctors out of nearly 3,000 applicants. Ms. estimated that since 2022 the Petitioner has 
conducted "at least 100 trainings, which were attended by at least 1000 doctors throughout Russia"; 
3 
importantly, she stated that the Petitioner "served as a leading expert and contributed significantly to 
the company's I I reputation and sales by training and consulting with hundreds of 
physicians throughout the country." 
Likewise, I l Branch Director of the I I branch in Russia, discussed the 
Petitioner's critical role in her collaboration withl I he stated that "[t]he success of our __ business model depends on a reliable network of trnsted cosmetologists who understand 
our products." Mr.I !explained that based on the Petitioner's "reputation in the field," she was 
chosen from a pool of over 700 doctors to represent and be "the face of L He also referred to 
the Petitioner's use ofl Idrug, I I in implementing her patented methodology, which 
resulted in the Petitioner being selected as the main speaker atl !nationwide annual conference 
on cosmetology and aesthetic medicine. Further, he referred to the Petitioner's training course at 
reputable beauty clinics, stating that her efforts as one of the "leading beauty experts in Russia ... 
resulted in increased sales and the advancement of the I lbrand in the Russian market." In light 
of the evidence submitted, we find that the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
With eligibility under the three criteria discussed above, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two­
step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. As noted above, 
where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115, section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). The Director did not reach a finding on the 
final merits, and we decline to make the final merits determination in the first instance. We will 
therefore remand the matter. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10064748 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology (IT) project manager, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) the approval of the petition based, in part, on 
questions regarding the authenticity of supporting documentation. After reviewing the Petitioner's 
response to the NOIR, the Director revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied 
only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." USCIS must give the 
petitioner notice of its intent to revoke the prior approval of the petition and the opportunity to submit 
evidence in opposition thereto, before proceeding with written notice of revocation. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2(b) and (c). 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an IT project manager. He received his Doctor of Computer Science from~ 
I I University in 2016. At the time of filing in October 2016, he was an employee of L_J I I inl I Florida. 
As a preliminary matter, we will address the Petitioner's claim that the NOi R offered inadequate notice 
of the grounds for revocation because "[a]t the time of the NOIR, the Service based the majority of its 
analysis and reasons of revocation on their fraud or willful misrepresentation claim .... " The 
Petitioner's contention is based upon statements in the NOIR which questioned the authenticity of the 
submitted recommendation letters. The Petitioner argues that since the notice of revocation (NOR) 
did not make any reference to fraud or material misrepresentation of a material fact "there was not 
sufficient evidence of record at the time of the notice that would deem the intention to revoke 'good 
and sufficient cause."' 
Here, the NO IR supplied the Petitioner with a statement of the grounds for revocation, thereby offering 
him an opportunity to respond and establish his eligibility. In addition to explaining the basis for 
questioning the authenticity of the submitted recommendation letters, the NOIR detailed how the 
documentation submitted did not meet at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In response to the NOIR, the Petitioner submitted additional 
documentation addressing both the issue of the authenticity of the reference letters and his claimed 
satisfaction of five criteria. After reviewing the Petitioner's response to the NOIR, the Director 
revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three criteria. The 
Director's NOR explained the reasons for revocation, providing support for the conclusions reached 
regarding the Petitioner's eligibility based on the evidence of record. Therefore, the Petitioner was 
afforded notice of the intent to revoke the prior approval of the petition and an opportunity to submit 
evidence in opposition before issuance of the written notice of revocation. See 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) 
and (c). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, membership in associations at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not agree with the 
Director's finding that the Petitioner satisfied the membership criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria, relating to judging, original 
contributions, scholarly articles, and high salary. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner meets only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. Accordingly, we find 
that the Director properly revoked the approval of the petition. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The Petitioner 
argued that he meets this criterion as a member of the Association for Computer Machinery (ACM) 
and as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought.1 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted documentary evidence that sufficiently demonstrates that he meets this criterion, 
and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
With reference to the ACM, the Petitioner presented screenshots from campus.acm.org regarding 
membership qualifications, indicating that ACM requires either a bachelor's degree (in any subject 
area), equivalent level of education, or two full years full-time employment in the IT field. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the requirements for membership in ACM rise to the level of 
"outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, the membership 
requirements show a level of education or years of experience in the IT field, which are not tantamount 
to outstanding achievements. 2 
Regarding the IEEE, the record shows that in 2016 the Petitioner's membership was elevated to "senior 
member" level, which he maintains satisfies the regulatory requirements of this criterion. The 
Petitioner submits a copy of the 2016 IEEE Bylaws. Relevant excerpts of section 1-104 provide as 
follows: 
3. Senior Member. The grade of Senior Member is the highest for which application 
may be made and shall require experience reflecting professional maturity. For 
admission or transfer to the grade of Senior Member, a candidate shall be an engineer, 
scientist, educator, technical executive, or originator in IEEE-designated fields .... 
The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at least ten years and shall 
have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years .... 
The Bylaws specify that "significant performance" can take the form of "[p]ublication of papers, 
books, or inventions." Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the IEEE requirements of 10 years 
of relevant experience in a particular field and "publication of paper, books, or inventions" rise to the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
4 
level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 3 Further, the Petitioner 
did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding achievements 
for membership with IEEE.4 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the evidence did not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner has judged the 
work of others in the field. 5 The Petitioner submitted e-mails dated July 7, 2016, and August 22, 2016, 
respectively, from....._ ___________ ..... of the International Journal of Cloud 
A lications and Com utin , confirmin that the Petitioner com leted review of the manuscri t 
Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated that he satisfies this criterion we wi II withdraw the Director's 
finding in this matter. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner argues that he submitted evidence of "contributions to the computer science field in the 
form of his published works, which clearly are original as such." In order to satisfy the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 7 For example, a petitioner may show that 
his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
3 By contrast, the requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely with the regulatory language 
than the requirements for the Senior Member grade: 
2. Fellow. The grade of Fellow recognizes unusual distinction in the profession and shall be conferred 
by the Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the 
IEEE fields of interest . . . . The accomplishments that are being honored shall have contributed 
importantly to the advancement or application of engineering , science and technology, bringing the 
realization of significant value to society .... 
Significantly, one can apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and election 
at the highest levels of the organization. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5 The Director also determined that there was insufficient documentation of "the level of acclaim associated" with the 
Petitioner's service as a judge. The nature of the Petitioner's judging duties would be a matter for discussion in the final 
merits determination. As discussed above, where a petitioner provides qualifying evidence satisfying the initial evidentiary 
criteria, we will determine whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010). 
6 Although the Petitioner provided evidence showing several additional requests for him to conduct manuscript reviews in 
2016, he did not demonstrate that he completed the reviews. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Director 
determined that the letters of support from experts in the field were insufficient to meet this criterion.8 
We find no error in the Director's determination. Although the Petitioner references his work relating 
to cybersecurity and information systems management, he did not demonstrate how his contributions 
are considered both original and of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, he offers several recommendation letters from colleagues who commented on his skills and 
experience. For instance, the Petitioner provided three letters froml l his 
dissertation chair atl I University. In an undated letter.I lstates that he is 
preparing the Petitioner "for conducting research and applying for international grants." In a letter 
dated October 2016,I I indicates that his ·oint research ro·ects with the Petitioner have ~ the book chapter titled ·,___ ____________________ __. 
L___J in Developing Next-Generation Countermeasures for Homeland Security Threat Prevention, 
and a submission titled 
,___ ________ __,' for the upcoming 14th International Conference on Information 
Technology: Next Generations (ITNG) (2017), to be published by Springer. He praises the 
Petitioner's "ability and tact for research." In his third letter! J praises the Petitioner's work 
ethic and professionalism . 
.___ _____ ____.the Petitioner's doctoral advisor at I !University, describes him 
as "a professional and competent individual in computer science and information systems" who is "on 
track to be one of the top researchers in the field of information technology." We note that multiple 
identical statements in I l's letter and I ts undated letter suggest that their 
language was not written independently. It is unclear whether the letters reflect their independent 
observations and thus an informed and unbiased opinion of the Petitioner's work. In evaluating the 
evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
The record also contains a letter from a senior manager with,___ ________ __, in I I Minnesota, stating the Petitioner was employed between 2012 and 2014 as mana~ 
the company's s stem. In addition, in two nearly identical letters I I and L__J I I directors at . confirm the Petitioner's em lo ment as a project manager 
for the implementation of the,___ ______________ ~ They describe his job 
duties and assert that he possesses the skills and experience to excel in the position and is a great asset 
to the organization. 
FurtherJ I Dean ofl I University's~-------~ 
confirms the Petitioner was employed as an associate professor of computer science. He praises the 
Petitioner's work in developing instructional content in cybersecurity and information management 
and describes him as a "great asset." .___ _____ __. also of I I University, 
describes the Petitioner as a serious-minded and diligent scholar in the field of computer science with 
"wide-ranging interests in the field of Cyber Security and [l]nformation Systems as well as in Project 
Management." However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself. Further, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has 
8 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his experience in the field somehow resulted in an 
original contribution of major significance. In addition, the letters do not establish the Petitioner's 
impact in the overall field beyond working for various employers. 9 
In the case here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact his personal contributions have had on the general field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value.10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements . 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted does not establish the Petitioner's articles were 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media.12 On appeal, the Petitioner 
claims eligibility for this criterion based on his co-authorship of the aforementioned book chapter 
entitled·------------------------· in Developing Next­
Generation Countermeasures for Homeland Security Threat Prevention, a collection of articles 
published by IGI Global in a print version and digitally on its website www.i 1-lobal.com.13 In 
addition, the record indicates the Petitioner's doctorate dissertation, 
----------------------------------'was 
pub Ii shed on ProQuest and in the International Journal of Strategic Information Technology and 
Applications (IJSITA).14 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires his "authorship of 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 The Director further emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide "extensive documentation showing that the 
Petitioner's work has been unusually influential or highly acclaimed by independent researchers at the national or 
international level .... " The level of recognition received by the Petitioner's articles would be more relevant to a final 
merits determination , as discussed previously. 
13 The IGI Global website indicates that all IGI Global publications are available through IGI Global's lnfoSci®-Books 
and lnfoSci®-Journals databases. 
14 The Petitioner also asserts that he satisfies this criterion based u on his co-authorshi of the aforementioned article, 
------------------------------- presented at the 
aforementioned 14th International Conference on ITNG (2017). The record reflects that the article was published by 
Springer in the ITNG conference proceedings in July 2017, subsequent to the filing of the petition in October 2016. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of 
7 
scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media."15 The 
Petitioner maintains that his articles were published in "professional publications and/or major media." 
Here, the Petitioner did not show that the book....._ _______________ ____. 
.__ ___________ __,qualifies as "scholarly" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field.16 The description of the book provided on the IGI Global website, 
indicating it is "[i]deal for policy makers, IT professionals, engineers, NGO operators, and graduate 
students," does not demonstrate that the book was written for "learned" persons in the information 
technology field rather than for the general public. While the book has a focus that may appeal to the 
interests of those in IT-related professions , its publisher confirms that its articles are intended to be 
accessible to the general public. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not show that the book is a professional publication. The term 
"profession" shall include but not be limited to architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, 
and teachers in elementary or secondary schools, colleges, academics, or seminaries. See section 
101(a)(32) of the Act. Moreover, "profession" means one of the occupations listed in section 
101(a)(32) of the Act, as well as any occupation for which a United States baccalaureate degree or its 
foreign equivalent is the minimum requirement for entry in the occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2) . 
The book jacket indicates it is part of IGI Global's Premier Reference Source publications . The IGI 
Global website provides that Premier Reference Source publications are "essential resources for 
libraries, academicians, researchers, professionals, practitioners, instructors, and students of both the 
undergraduate and graduate level." Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that an intended audience 
such as undergraduate students meets the definition of "profession" as defined in the law and 
regulations . Accordingly, the Petitioner did not est~hlish that the hook a11alifies as a nratessjonal 
ublication. Further the Petitioner did not show thatl I 
represents a major trade publication or other major medium. ---=..--=-,...,....----,.----,------.--.------T e Pet1t1oner, or instance, 1 not provide statistics or other evidence establishing the major standing 
of the book.17 
Finally, as noted previously, the evidence indicates the Petitioner's dissertation was published in 
IJSIT A. 18 Thus the Petitioner has demonstrated that he authored a scholarly article in a professional 
publication. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion, and we will 
withdraw the Director's finding in this matter. 
the filing and continuing through adjudication . See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(I); Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'I 
Comm'r 1971). Accordingly , we need not address this eligibility claim on appeal. 
15 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at 9. 
16 Id. 
17 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at 9 (providing that evidence of professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and the intended audience). 
18 The publication of the Petitioner's doctorate dissertation on ProQuest, a web site repository that has published four 
million theses and dissertations with no apparent selection process for publication , does not amount to the publication of 
a scholarly article in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field.19 The Petitioner submitted 
a job offer dated 2011 from..___ _______ __, inl I Minnesota, for "Systems 
Accounting Manager position grade 0013" at an annual salary of $100,000. The record also contains 
an earnings statement dated December 27, 2013, showing that he received an annual salary of 
$101,923 and a bonus of $13,300. According to the plain language of the regulation, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that any other remuneration separately from his salary as an IT project manager is 
"significantly high." Although the Petitioner provides comparative salary information, discussed 
below, he does not argue, nor does the record include, evidence demonstrating that his additional 
bonus is significantly high in relation to others. Thus, we will evaluate the record to determine whether 
the Petitioner's annual salary of $101,923 at I I is high compared to others in his field 
without considering his bonus as part of his salary. 
The record also contains a pay slip dated September 29, 2016, frame=] inl I Florida, 
showing that the Petitioner's salary as an LRP f11□ctiaoal business manager was $115,000. The 
aforementioned letters froml I and_ I indicate that the Petitioner was hired to 
"lead the implementation and project management efforts from the finance/accounting area of 
business," and that he "manages a cross functional team of over 25 personnel." 
As a comparison, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from the O*Net online database, reflecting that 
the median wages for "Computer Systems Engineers/Architects" and "Computer Occupations, All 
Other" are $85,240. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence establishing that comparative wage 
data for Computer Systems Engineers/Architects or those performing all computer occupations 
constitutes an appropriate basis of comparison to the Petitioner's occupational title of IT project 
manager. Even if the Petitioner had done so, this comparison does not take into account local variances 
in salary, relying upon the less accurate national median rather than local wage data for the area in 
which the Petitioner is employed. Also, a comparison to the median salary alone does not provide a 
complete set of information to which the Petitioner's salary may be compared. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted prevailing wage data from the ForP.ia □ I abar Jertification Data 
Center (FLCDC) for "Computer Occupations, All Other," for thel _ Minnesota non­
metropolitan area, reflecting a prevailing wage for "Level 4" or fully competent employees of $82,264 
per year. 20 The Petitioner has not established that the fully competent wage information for those 
performing all computer occupations constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. 
Further, although the Petitioner provided additional screenshots from the O*Net online database, 
providing that the "high" annual salary for "Computer Occupations -All Other in Florida" and 
"Computer Occupations -All Other in Minnesota" is, respectively, $116,730 and $116,890, he did 
not provide comparative wage data of other IT project managers, rather the general category of all 
19 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at 11. 
20 The Level 4 Wage relates to fully competent employees. See Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance , 
http://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_ll _2009.pdf at page 7, accessed on October 9, 2020, 
and incorporated into record of proceedings. 
9 
computer occupations. The record does not sufficiently show that the data regarding this broad 
category represents an appropriate comparison against individuals engaged in similar work. See 
Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains on appeal that his current salary and eligibility for profit sharing with ___________ satisfies this criterion. The record reflects, however, that he began 
this employment in July 2019, subsequent to the filing of the petition in October 2016. The Petitioner 
must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(I); Matter of Katigbak, 
14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'I Comm'r 1971). Accordingly, we need not address this eligibility claim on 
appeal. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9945545 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research associate engaged in the cellular and molecular mechanisms of 
carcinogenesis, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that although the 
Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements, she did not establish the requisite national or 
international acclaim, and standing in the overall field, to qualify as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
According to her curriculum vitae, the Petitioner received her Master of Science degree in 
immunology atl µniversity in 2003 and her Doctor of Philosophy degree in cell 
biology at the I IAcademy of Sciences in 2009. At the time of filing in March 2019, she was 
employed as a postdoctoral research associate at I I in I I Minnesota in the 
Derrtment of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, where her research work focused on the roles of 
the_ ~ and the immune checkpoint regulator I I inl I cancers, including 
breast cancer and pancreatic cancer. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not indicate that she received a 
major, internationally recognized award, and that she therefore must satisfy at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met all three of the 
initial evidentiary criteria claimed by her, relating to judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and authorship of scholarly 
articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's involvement in peer review of manuscripts 
for professional journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied 
field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored scholarly articles published in 
professional publications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). However, for the reasons discussed below, 
we do not agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner satisfied the original contributions 
criterion. Accordingly, after reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets 
only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted partial copies of her publications, citation 
evidence for her published work, letters from experts in the field, and other evidence. As mentioned 
previously, the Director found that this documentation demonstrated the Petitioner's original 
contributions of major significance in the field. In order to fulfill the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions but that 
they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. For the 
reasons outlined below, we find that the documentation submitted does not sufficiently demonstrate 
that the Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's determination 
on this issue will be withdrawn. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that at the time she filed her petition she had authored 1 7 articles 
in professional journals. As one type of evidence of the impact of her work, she provided a March 
2019 Google Scholar citation history reflecting 214 cumulative citations to those articles, authored by 
her between 2003 and 2018. Specifically, the record shows that her six highest cited articles received 
94 (Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications), 37 (Cellular Immunology), 21 (The 
Journal of Immunology), 15 ( Cell Biology International), 13 (Oncogene), and 10 (Biochemistry & 
Physiology) citations, respectively. 2 While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and 
collectively, show that field has noticed her work, she has not established that such rates of citation 
are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in her field commensurate with contributions "of major 
significance in the field." 3 
As another form of evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner contends that a number of experts have 
offered testimony regarding the significance of her work. 4 Although several of the letters assert that 
the Petitioner's original scientific discoveries have "significantly advanced the field of understanding 
the cellular and molecular mechanisms of disease states and cancer biology," they do not sufficiently 
explain or justify their assertions. For example, the Petitioner's former supervisor 
during her master's studies at Universit discusses the Petitioner's work on the 
molecular mechanisms of a case of .__ _________ _.occurring in an infant. He asserts that 
the Petitioner's work detailing a specific mutation as a major factor in the first reported case ofl I I !deficiency in China "is of paramount importance for the development of effective therapeutic 
strategies that can target the specific location of the mutation she identified to treat I t 
and can "advance the field's ability to screen family members for I !deficiency." He does not 
explain how other researchers have used this information to date, nor does the record show that 
therapeutic treatments or screening tests have been derived from this particular research. In addition, 
asl l's letter only discusses the Petitioner's research findings regarding a case of infant I I it does not provide sufficient support for his additional assertion that the Petitioner's 
work "has had a widespread impact on the advancement of novel therapeutic strategies to improve 
patient outcomes for the millions of cancer patients across the world." 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 The Petitioner's remaining 11 publications received between 1 and 8 citations, with four articles garnering no citations. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 Although we discuss only a sampling of these letters we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
_______ I the Petitioner's former supervisor at thel IAcad m ciences, indicates 
the Petitioner obtained her Ph.D. in cell biology for her research involvin thera ies for D 
I I and the molecular mechanisms underlying the treatment of.__ _______ _, with the 
FDA-approved d "F'-----, ______ J He explains that the Petitioner developed a novel 
method to geJtl.e!:aifL_...,___J: progenitor cells for trans lantation intol I patients to create 
cells for the treatment o . He asserts that the Petitioner's novel 
method will-"e_n_a...,.b-le-th_e ..... development of novel .__ ____ _. treatments for I I" His 
letter does not explain how the Petitioner's novel method has been widely implemented or how it has 
been regarded by the field as a contribution of 1ajol significance. In addition,! I noted that 
the Petitioner conducted research to characterize 's effects onOcells, wlp.ch,recent research 
has demonstrated pl~ role inD He asserts that · · ' ·ng thatLJs ef~ectivfness 
for the treatment of LJ is principally a function of it cells, rather tha cells 
as was previously hypothesized, identifie .__ ____ __, as a novel pharmaceutical target for the 
treatment ofD His letter does not demonstrate, however, that the Petitioner's research has resulted 
in new drugs for the treatment o0that are available in the marketplace; rather, it appears that such 
an impact remains prospective in nature. 
The record also contains a letter froml l the Petitire;·s sup,~isor when she wa.s an 
instructor a~---~luniversity of! I states that the Petitioner 
conducted research on the mechanism by which the natural compound lowersl I 
levels and reduces I I inl I "in order to advance the prescription of 
I land related compounds in this widespread disease." He provides that based on the 
Petitioner's work, showing the molecular mechanism by whichl I reduces blood glucose levels 
by activating insulin siiialing through thel I activity, clinical use ~ b ~ 
treating! was "advanced" and "novel drugs specifically designed tol I 
activity can be developed ." I I does not indicate that based on the Petitioner's rork the 
prescription oft lforl I has become standard clinical practice or that ] I I drugs have been developed . Rather, his letter discusses how the Petitioner 's findings may 
impact the field at some point in the future but does not demonstrate how her work already qualifies 
as a contribution of major significance in the field. In addition, I Is letter only discusses the 
Petitioner's research findings regarding the mechanism by whicH llowers blood glucose 
levels and does not provide sufficient support for his additional assertion that the Petitioner's work 
has advanced the development of novel therapies for cancer. 
_____ __.I the Petitioner's supervisor at I I provides information regarding the 
Petitioner's findings as a postdoctoral research fellow and research associate ::itl 5 Ion 
the roles of the I I and the immune checkpoint re~ulatorL-_4_.·.l.&...--i~---___J 
cancers, including b;east cance; and pancreatic cancer. I !explains,.a.th=a=t'------""""""....;;.;;;;~..a...a.a., 
regulate essential cellular events that occur durin cancer metastasis, and th .__ _______ _, 
a therapy for.__ __ ..,.... __ .,..._ _______ __.,. The Petitioner conducted r~......,......_ ................ ......., 
mechanisms by which.__ __ is linked to breast cancer metastasis and promotes th;::..e.!z:::::===::::;-----' 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Her research determined that targeting ___ inhibits 
breast cancer metastasis and slows the progression of PDAC, and that la ,---........, 
in enabling cancer cells to avoid immune attack by regulatin,!.f:>L----.----r----'-1---.,.. dicates 
that the Petitioner's research demonstrated thatl I is a ___ _. and for the 
metastasis of breast cancer and PDAC and enhancing immune checkpoint ________ ~ 
4 
therapies for I She asserts that the Petitioner's research contributions have "identified target 
molecules and cellular and molecular mechanisms that enable development of improved treatments 
for breast and pancreatic cancer," but she does not indicate that improved treatments for breast and 
pancreatic cancer have already been developed based on the Petitioner's research findings. 
The Petitioner also rovided an ex ert testimonial letter frortj I a professor at 
University L_ ___ ,----------,- ___ _J highlighting the Petitioner's aforementioned 
research findin s at University, [,-------.. I I I 
University~-------------~ and]._--___ _.n I asserts that the 
Petitioner's "contributions have enabled the development of treatments for hyperlipidemia, diabetes, 
multiple sclerosis, breast cancer, and pancreatic cancer," although we find inadequate corroboration 
of this statement in the supporting documentation. 5 
In addition, several authors of the letters asserted that they have utilized the Petitioner's findings in 
their research. For instance, a professor ofl I oncology at the University 
who cited to the Petitioner's 2015 Oncogene article in his 
review article 'L..-------------------r---,__ ____ ____J(Trends in Cancer), 
stated that the Petitioner's work "clarified the vital role o .~-~ ... in regulating tumor growth and 
metastasis" and provided "direction for further investigations." He asserted her research has been "of 
major significance for the development of novel diagnostic I I and therapeutic I I to 
improve the success of cancer therapy." His letter does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's research 
has resulted in new anti-cancer drugs or I I that are available in the marketplace; rather, it 
appears that that the Petitioner's work has potential to majorly impact the field in the future. On 
appeal, the Petitioner provides a partial copy o~ ts article showing his citation to her 
work, and maintains that this citation and others in the record show that her work was singled out for 
special attention, but she has not established that the impact of her work on the overall fields of cell 
or molecular biology rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance. 6 The article, 
the stated purpose of which is to "review the I I signaling axis in cancer," discusses 
more than 60 source articles in similar terms; there is no special emphasis on the Petitioner's work 
relative to the hundreds of researchers who contributed to the other cited articles. This article and 
others like it acknowledge the Petitioner's contributions to the advancement of what appears to be an 
active area of research but are not indications that her work has substantially influenced the field or 
otherwise rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
a professor of chemistry and biochemistry atl cited to the 
Petitioner's 2010 Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications article in his 2011 article 
(Biochimie ). He indicates that ~--------------------------~ the Petitioner's work demonstrated a previously unknown mechanism of ~---------~ 
5 We further note thad ~s letter and several others identify an additional original contribution, that the 
Petitioner has shown that I I signal promqtes metf stasis ofc=] by activating I I ~-------~ and performs functions independent otl.__~ Those letters reflect that the Petitioner "is 
preparing her findings for publication in a leading journal," but the record does not reflect that her research in this area had 
been published at the time the petition was filed on March 28, 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
6 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
effects and " rovided valuable information for developing a novel therapeutic□ in the treatment 
of "I I a professor of behavioral genetics at the University of 
.,__ ______ ......_c_it_ed_t_o_t....,he Petitioner's 2009 Journal of Immunology article in his review article 
.__ ___________ L..i.:;;,Experimental Neurology). He states that the Petitioner's finding that 
r4e ;j.__ _______ __, exerts a therapeutic effect againsOby preventing the development 
o cells is "of major significance due to its impact on our understanding of thd I 
pat way" and "can be used to develop novel therapies for neurological diseases ... that function by 
inhibiting the effects of the I I imbalance."7 While the aforementioned scientists have 
cited to the Petitioner's work, the record does not show that her findings have affected the field in a 
major way, that her research has been widely utilized or heavily cited, or that her work otherwise 
constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. This evidence confirms that others were 
able to build upon the Petitioner's work and apply it to their own research. But it does not show that 
the impact of her work on the overall field rises to the level of an original contribution of major 
significance . The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced 
is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance ." 
o1 appeal( the Petitioner emphasizes that her most recent publications focus on "elucidating the role 
of in cancer" which she asserts is "a very specialized research area" and argues that an 
equitable comparison of her work would be to those researchers who work in "this area of the field." 
She argues that her "substantial impact on the field" is shown by documentation submitted from 
PubMed indicating that "of the 20 articles tagged with I I and 'cancer"' the Petitioner "has 
authored 25% of scholarly articles ... and had her work referenced in 4 7% of the remaining articles." 
However, the Petitioner's current research appears to be conducted in broad fields such as cell biology, 
molecular biology, cancer biology, and sub-specialties such as carcinogenesis. The Petitioner's 
identification of a "specialized research area" as a field of expertise is a narrowing of her field to an 
extent which prevents meaningful comparison. In this case, while the record establishes the 
Petitioner's involvement in various research projects, it does not show the Petitioner's influence on 
the field of cell or molecular biology as a whole. The submissions do not demonstrate her impact at a 
level consistent with a finding of "major significance in the field." 
The letters considered above primarily contain broad attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 Letters that lack 
specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 9 USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements . 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The 
authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings 
have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field, or explain how her "contributions 
7 On appeal, the Petitioner provides four additional papers citing to her work which were published in professional journals 
subsequent to the filing of the petition in March 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
8 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9Id.at9. 
6 
have enabled the development of treatments for hyperlipidemia, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, breast 
cancer, and pancreatic cancer." Without additional detail explaining her accomplishments relating to 
new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters discussed above do not establish that the 
Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in her field commensurate with a contribution of 
major significance . Simply stating that the work is important or that it has potential to majorly impact 
the field in the future is not sufficient. The expert opinion evidence reviewed in its totality does not 
establish how the Petitioner has already made a contribution of major significance in the field, rather 
than generally discussing the prospective, potential impacts of her research. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. The Petitioner 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted original research, and authored scholarly 
articles. Regarding the Petitioner's work as the judge of others, she has not presented documentation 
that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of 
completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served in an editorial position 
for a distinguished journal or publication, or chaired a technical committee for a reputable conference, 
to establish that her peer review experience places her among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Documentation submitted on appeal from Publons.com does not provide enough details to substantiate 
the Petitioner's claim that her number of completed manuscript reviews places her among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field; it does not indicate how Publons derives its rankings, whether 
its statistics are based on self-reported information rather than derived from an impartial source, and 
how its statistics relate to the field as a whole. In addition, letters submitted from several journals 
indicating the Petitioner was selected as a peer reviewer based on subject matter expertise, and not 
upon notable achievements or acclaim, do not demonstrate that her judging experience is indicative of 
her placement among the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field. Further, as all 
but four of the Petitioner's reviews occurred between 2015 and 2018, the Petitioner did not establish 
that her judging experience over a three-year period contributes to a finding that she has a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
Lastly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated, through her citation evidence or expert testimonials, that 
her research work is indicative of sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of the 
field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10320150 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that she met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, 
of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates her most recent employment as president and CEO of D al I company that provides consulting services in real estate an~d_c_a_p-ita_l_m_a_n_a-ge_m_e_n~t 
and investment. The evidence submitted also indicates that rior to her arrival to the United States in 
2010 she w m naging partner of the law firm of resident of the fashion 
comp<,i.u..>'-'----...J....UJ....LIJ..:i.wci::.i~·d in some capacity with on the construction 
of the.___ ______ ___.amusement parks in 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We find the evidence 
sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner, as the president and CEO of I I 
plays a leading role for that company. Further, the record establishes that the Petitioner's company 
enjoys a distinguished reputation as a consulting company, as evidenced by its work withl I I I representing major U.S. companies such asl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional criteria, relating to lesser awards, 
published materials, original contributions of major significance, and high salary. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
The Petitioner ar ues that she meets this criterion based on a runner-up prize in the Season 1agazine I 
2000 competition, and a certificate of recognition from the 
at their 20151 !ceremony. In '----------------~ order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as wel I as any I imitations on com etitors. 2 Althou h the Petitioner documented her receipt 
of a runner-up prize in the 2000 competition and a certificate of 
recognition in 2015 from.___ _ ____. the supporting evidence is insufficient to show that these are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 
Regarding the,___ _________ ~competition in 2000, the evidence submitted included 
two articles dated 2000 from the event's s onsor Season ma azine. The first article titled 
indicates that the Petitioner is the president of the Italian fashion boutique,___ ___ ~in ........,_ _ _. 
and is pursuing a degree in management and marketing. The second article, announcing the winners 
of the competition, states that the "main criterion is the success of a woman, her achievements in the 
professional or public arena." The article indicates that the terms of the competition "do not limit the 
participants to age, territorial, professional, national or any other bounds," with the main goal being 
"to increase the status of a businesswoman in Kazakhstan." The article explains that past winners 
included a ballerina and the director of an international botanical company. The article further 
provides that for the 2000 competition a "huge number of applications for participation were 
submitted," and the participants were divided in categories including services, culture, tourism and 
sports, healthcare, education, jurisprudence, and trade. Among the 6 finalists the jury chose two 
runners-up and one winner. Captioned photographs accompanying the article indicate thatl I I I was the chairman of the jury. The runners-up, one of whom was the 
Petitioner, received a gift from the retailer Butya of items from Christian Dior and Decleor, 
commercial sponsors of the event. The winner of the competition, ~----------~ 
received a statuette of the mythical bird Simurg and a trip to Bali. The record also contains 
photographs showing the winner receiving her trophy and the two runners-up, including the Petitioner, 
receiving gift bags. 
The record also contains several letters relevant to this award. 
of Season magazine, states that the I lcompe~ti-ti-on-h-el_d_n_o_m_i-na-t-io_n_s _fo_r_t_h_e_m_o_s~t 
outstanding women of the country in business, sport, culture, music, trade, policy, charity, and social 
projects." She indicates that "the winners from each nomination were selected amongst thousands of 
"SEASON" readers, nationally and internationally, and from a jury consisting of the most well-known 
and authoritative executives and political figures of Kazakhstan" and that "[t]h _______ __, 
, and the popular votes of our readers" determined the recipients of that award. '---------~ 
She states that the Petitioner was the winner in the~category of the competition, and "the story 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 Id. 
3 
behind [her] business success" was ~ublished in the aforementioned 2000 Season article.I I I wesident of Kazakhstan l ] a co-sponsor of the competition '-w-it_h_t_h....,e 
Kazakhstan I I states that the Petitioner's award in the category ~ I was 
presented by! I who also chaired the jury panel and determined the 
award winners. She indicates that the award "was open to all female citizens, without any restriction," 
and that all award winners "were recognized in Season magazine." 
I I a formerl lot Kazakhstan, indicates that "for her achievements in 
the cultural and business spheres" the Petitioner received "official acknowledgement as the recipient 
of the! I in Kazakhstan Award, a national award presented to the male and 
female Kazakh citizen with the greatest impact on the economic development of our nation." 3 The 
aforementioned documentation contains apparent inconsistencies. The article and letters fromD I I an..Q.J'----------'~ate tha~ ~ was the jury chair who chose the 
winner in the all-femalE!'.__ _____ ~ _ __.of the Year competition, whilel !indicates 
a competition which included male and female competitors and does not discuss his role in thee=] 
I !competition. Inconsistencies in the record must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). 
Notwithstanding the above, the limited evidence of the media coverage of the I I I laward is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition associated 
with the award. The evidence submitted does not demonstrate, for example, that the award winners 
receive a level of media coverage associated with a nationally or internationally recognized award in 
the field of business. The one article that mentions the Petitioner's receipt of a runner-up prize, an 
announcement of the winners of the competition from the event's sponsor, does not support the letters' 
claims that the award is nationally or internationally recognized. The other Season article, while 
noting the category in which the Petitioner was nominated, does not specifically mention her winning 
a runner-up prize. While one article and the aforementioned letters reflect information about the 
competition, this documentation does not demonstrate the recognition that the award received beyond 
the awarding entity. For example, the record does not contain media coverage of the Petitioner's 
receipt of the award in the trade or general media. In addition, although the authors describe the award 
as a nationally or internationally recognized award, the authors did not support their assertions with 
detailed, specific, and objective information explaining how the overall field views the prize beyond 
the sponsors of the competition. Further, the letters and articles do not provide detailed, specific, and 
objective information explaining the criteria used to grant award or the selection process. 
As it relates tol I the Petitioner provided a copy of the certifi9ate she received at the 2015 award 
ceremony for .... l ____________ ____.I in honor of l I and 
3 We further note tha s letter identifies an additional award, that the Petitioner "several years ago" received 
"a national honor" from the former of Kazakhstan, I I for her company's creation of the 
.__ __________ _. i .___ ..... Kazakhstan; however, the Petitioner did not present any supporting 
evidence of her receipt of this award. The record contains an article from www.neweurasia.info that discusses the 
ceremonial events surrounding the official presentation by I I of the new capital city ofc=] in 1998, 
includin~ning of the second I f built by thel I company, the first 
being inL___J However, that article does not mention the Petitioner. 
4 
photographs of her receiving the certificate, which indicates it is in recognition of the Petitioner's 
',__ ___________________________ ~' The evidence 
submitted does not establish that the basis for granting the prize was excellence in the field. Rather, it 
appears that the award is local in sea e. The program for the event indicates that the annual award, a 
celebration j""""'"------,__ _ _J initiated in 2011 by thel pf the Republic of 
Kazakhstan is intended "to celebrate the commitment of women throu hout the 
many immigrant communities in~---.· ... " Similarly, a letter from notes 
that the award is given to "20 local luminaries," "women leaders ... throughout the ____ ____, 
who, while hailing from 20 different countries, reflect both the talent and multiculturalism "possessed 
by all I I." 
In addition, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not establish that thel I award recognized 
the Petitioner's achievements in the field of business.I Is letter notes that the award is 
not restricted to the field of business, but included recipients "ruling in the courtroom, designing 
skyscrapers, penning best-sellers, putting out fires, caring for patients, patrolling our streets, teaching 
our children [and] serving in our governments." Although the Petitioner's biography from the event 
program highlights her employment as an entrepreneur, a letter from I I the I lot Kazakhstan, asserts that the Petitioner received the award for what 
appears to be her charitable work with the I I of Kazakhstan "focused on issues that 
involved the basic education, protection of children's rights, and awareness campaigns concentrated 
on domestic abuse and violence against women." 
Further, the limited evidence of the award's media coverage is also insufficient to establish the level 
of national or international recognition associated with the I I award. The Petitioner provided a 
press release for the 2015 event posted on the website of its host and organizer, the I I 
of the Slovak Republic! 14 The record also contains a transcript of a brief television 
segment on the award ceremony and screenshots indicatin= it was posted on the Kazakh websites I VkhabarTV I 7user/khabarAZ, L lkhabar.kz, Khabar.kz, 
Kaztube.kz/kz and .... ~----Vi<habartv. The transcript indicates the award is an initiative of 
the of Kazakhstan, and that the winners included the Petitioner, Croatianr-7 
.====-=1...,;l:..:....:n-=.donesian producer I I Romanian..,..._ _______ _,. Mexicanc==] 
~--~ and representatives of fifteen other countries. The coverage includes the Petitioner's 
comment accepting the award on behalf of the women of Kazakhstan, a brief biography noting that 
she is a~~-------' U.S. investment company, and the opening comments ol I I I The press release and transcript are brief announcements of the winners of the annual award 
ceremony and do not demonstrate, for example, that the award winners receive a level of media 
coverage associated with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the business field. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
4 The record further contains press release~s....!.fl:!.!oJ!::==::::::!....ll c""'eLS:rell.m,onies in 2016 and 2Q18 from resqectively, event partner 
,__ ______ ____,and event host I ~ the Czech Republic I~ ____ _,.J 
5 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 5 The Petitioner provided several articles about the Petitioner from the print 
edition of the monthly women's magazine Season. 6 An article dated 2000 provides that she is the 
president of the I I in I I and is pursuing a degree in 
management and marketing. An interview with the Petitioner dated 2007 indicates it is authored by 
her neighbor, contains photographs of the Petitioner wearing different designers, and states that she 
closed her fashion boutique and is now the head of a legal services company. Although information 
about Season from the website resurz.kz indicates it is "the leader in terms of sales of advertising 
among glossy publications," it does not provide circulation statistics. A screenshot from a 2000 
edition of Season magazine indicates its "coverage" includes Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Kyrgyzstan 
and it is "[a]n edition of 10,000 copies." However, the record lacks relevant information such as how 
this circulation figure compares to other print magazines in Kazakhstan, and therefore the evidence is 
insufficient to establish that this publication qualifies as major media. 
A listing titled "International Women of Entrepreneurshi -Kazakstan" on the website I 7 
contains the Petitioner's biography indicatin she is th ofl rTn I I and was managing partner atL...r-------,.....---_J founder of a design and construction 
firm, and president of the fashion busines ~--~ Further, a 2005 listing of members of the 
Kazakhstan Association of Businesswomen on www.businesswomen.kz contains a brief biography of 
the Petitioner indicating she provides business and legal services as the director o~ I 
However, this article does not include the required author of the material. The record also lacks 
circulation statistics for I ~ and www.businesswomen.kz and therefore does not demonstrate 
that either website is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
The Petitioner also provided the aforementioned transcript of a 2015 television segment which was 
posted on the websites I l/khabarTV, I ~user/khabarAZ, 
I ~khabar.kz, Khabar.kz, Kaztube.kz/kzQandl Vkhabartv. As discussed 
previously, the transcript reports the winners of the W1f I awards and is about that ceremony 
and is not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner 
provided insufficient evidence to establish that those websites are considered to be major media in 
Kazakhstan. Although the Petitioner provided information about Khabar I I indicating it 
is the parent company of three state-owned TV channels, Khabar, Kazakh TV, and Khabar 24., and a 
portion of a 2013 report titled ·1 I from the Open Society Media 
Program, stating that the Khabar media agency is a Kazakh state media holding "accessible to 98.3 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 In her aforementioned letter.I lstates that Season magazine suspended operations sometime after 
celebrating its twentieth anniversary in December 2018. 
7 We note that the co-founder of EPN (Entr1preneu7 and Professionals Network).! I was also the Mistress 
of Ceremonies at the aforementioned 2015 awards ceremony, where her company was a partnering organization. 
6 
percent of the population," these sources do not establish the online circulation statistics for the above 
websites. Moreover, while a letter from of I I 
states that "[a]s of 2012,~ ___ ____. has also maintained a YouTube channel which has in excess 
of 200 million views," he did not submit independent, objective evidence supporting his claims.8 
USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self­
serving assertions on the cover a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of major 
media). Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of "200 million views" or explain 
how such information reflects status as a major medium. 
The Petitioner submitted several additional articles under this criterion. An article titled 'l._ ___ ____. 
from Kapital.kz is not about the Petitioner; it examines different 
.... in_v_e_s-tm_e_n_t_s-ec_t_o-rs_a_n_d_q_u_o_te~s the Petitioner, her partners atl I and several other 
entrepreneurs regarding factors that favor and disfavor investing in the country. An article about 
Kapital from 24.kz indicates there are print and digital editions of the publication and quotes the 
president of thel I its parent company, as stating that "[a]bout 1.5 million people visit [the 
website] per month." Again, the Petitioner did not submit independent, objective evidence supporting 
the article's claims, or demonstrating that 1.5 million visits per month reflects status as a major 
medium. 
The Petitioner also provided an article from the print magazine Forbes Kazakhstan titled I~ __ __. I t which is not about the Petitioner but quotes her in describing the consulting 
services provided by her company, I I An additional article published on 
hommes.kz contains an interview with the Petitioner and the other founders of I I 
~------~ and I I discussing the educational consulting services they offer. 
The articles from Forbes Kazakhstan and hommes.kz do not include an author. A 2019 media kit 
from hommes.kz indicates the digital publication covers "[s]tartups, business projects, interesting 
cases, extraordinary people from all over the world and talented people of Kazakhstan," and that the 
site receives 70,840 viewers per month. A 2016 media kit from Forbes Kazakhstan provides that the 
circulation of the magazine is 10,000 per month. The record lacks comparative circulation statistics 
for that magazine and website, demonstrating that they are a major trade publication or other major 
medium. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the regulatory requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted several letters of support discussing her work 
as an entrepreneur. The Director considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 
field. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of support from 
colleagues in the field were insufficient to meet this criterion.9 However, as discussed below, the 
letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example.I I a property broker and consultant inl Indicates that he has worked 
with the Petitioner an~ I to provide property investment opportunities "to an 
exclusive group of net-worth individuals." He states that her "partnerships with leading U.S. real 
estate development entities" and her understanding of the economies in the United States and 
Kazakhstan make her "an excellent liaison between Kazakhstani investors and the U.S. market." He 
describes her as "a person of influence in positioning Kazakhstan as an attractive investment 
destination." 
Kazakhstan to Mexico. states that the Petitioner 
._is_a_w_e-11--r-eg-a-rd_e_d_b_u_s_in-e-ss_w_o_m_a_n_i_n_K_a_z_ak_h_s_ta_n_a_n__,d the United States. I I 
I I of the Association of Businesswomen of Kazakhstan, asserts that the Petitioner, a former 
member of the association, is "a highly celebrated businesswoman" in Kazakhstan who furthered 
women's entrepreneurship in that country "through her participation as a speaker at various 
international forums and conferences." 
In her aforementioned letter.I I asserts that the Petitioner was the foundin member and 
developer of the I I inl I and that "has had a 
substantial positive impact" on national economic growth and development. 
former mayor I I indicates that he "witnessed [the Petitioner's] intensive involvement in the 
planning, construction, and oversight of~ _______ __,and that the work of the Petitioner's 
team on thatl l"had a substantial impact on building the new face of '-:-------,--------:,------=-' of Kazakhstan." While this evidence indicates that the Petitioner contributed to the construction of 
the.__ __________ ___, in~-----~· it does not provide detailed information 
explaining the nature of her contribution or the unusual influence or high impact of her work in the 
overall field beyond those projects. 10 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact the Petitioner's work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
9 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 
value.11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.12 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually 
and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the leading or critical role criterion, she does not meet 
the criteria regarding lesser awards, published material, and original contributions of major 
significance. While she argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating 
to high salary at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
reserve this issue.13 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has served in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 {BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23414566 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and four subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the May 16, 2022, dismissal 
of the Petitioner's fourth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asse1ts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the 
proceeding. 
As we explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner did not 1) submit new evidence or state new facts 
or 2) identify any specific errors in our dismissal of his fourth appeal. 3 Instead, he repeated previous 
assertions from prior submissions which did not overcome our earlier conclusions. 
Rather than address our most recent dismissal, the Petitioner again asserts that he is eligible for the 
requested classification. 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our May 2022 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his 
motion to reopen because he has not provided documentary evidence of new facts related to that 
decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 As we explained, "a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief 
presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior appellate decision. The moving party 
must specify the factual and legal issues that were previously decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision or must 
show how a change in law materially affects our prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006)." 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10962752 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 20, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a master mariner and specialist surveyor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner: (1) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria; (2) seeks 
to continue working in the area of claimed extraordinary ability; and (3) would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States, as required. The Petitioner filed two combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. On both occasions, the Director granted the motions, withdrew the prior decision, and 
issued a new denial notice. The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 Because the Director withdrew the first two denial decisions , only the most recent decision is before us on appeal. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that a master mariner is, essentially, a ship captain, qualified to command vessels 
of any size. The Petitioner also states that a specialist surveyor may inspect vessels, provide technical 
advice, and provide arbitration and expert testimony. The Petitioner also "holds a Law degree" and is 
"certified as [a] casualty investigator and Lead Auditor," authorizing him to conduct "ship verifications, 
and certification." The Petitioner intends to run a marine surveying and consulting company in the United 
States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At various times in this proceeding, the Petitioner claims to have met 
seven of the criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (viii), 
relating to a leading or critical role. We will not disturb that conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria numbered (i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (ix). The Petitioner 
2 
does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding criterion (vi), and therefore we consider that 
issue to be abandoned. 2 
We reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude, as discussed below, that it does not show 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
At various times in this proceeding, the Petitioner claimed several awards, which the Director considered 
to be deficient for various reasons. On appeal, the Petitioner abandons most of these claims and discusses 
only one of these awards. Thel linl I 
presented the Petitioner with an "Honorary Helmsman Award for his dedicated efforts towards academic 
development, forming future generations of seafarers." 
The Director determined that this award appears to be limited to the staff and faculty of one university, 
and that the Petitioner had not established the national or international recognition of the award. We need 
not explore these questions, because there is a more fundamental issue. 
The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). When the Petitioner filed the petition in October 2018, he did not mention the Honorary 
Helmsman Award. Subsequent submissions show that he did not receive the award until December 2018, 
nearly two months after he filed the petition. Therefore, the award cannot show eligibility at the time of 
filing, and therefore we will not discuss the separate issue of whether the award is nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
After initially claiming various memberships, the Petitioner limits his arguments on appeal to his full 
membership in the International Institute of Marine Surveying (IIMS). The Petitioner quotes a submitted 
printout from the IIMS's website, which states: "IIMS membership is open to professional marine 
surveyors ... who have sufficient and relevant experience and who meet the Institute's joining criteria." 
Full membership in the IIMS is available to: 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
• Anyone who can prove that they have practised on a full-time basis for a minimum of five 
years as a consultant or marine surveyor. 
• Individuals who, by producing written reports can demonstrate that they have practised 
marine surveying or consultancy for at least five years. 
• Individuals whose qualifications or experience shall be considered appropriate by the 
Professional Assessment Committee. 
The IIMS' s own website, quoted above, does not describe the restrictive membership requirements that 
the regulation demands. Five years' experience is not an outstanding achievement, and the Petitioner has 
not shown that the Professional Assessment Committee consists of recognized national or international 
experts. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record contains five articles from 2015-16 about efforts to revitalize! la fishing company 
inl I The articles identify the Petitioner as the president of the company, and many of them 
quote him talking about the company. The articles focus on the company, rather than on the Petitioner 
and his work there. 
Also, the Petitioner claims extraordinary ability as a master mariner and specialist surveyor. These fields 
certainly have some relevance to the fishing industry, but the articles do not appear to relate to his work 
as a master mariner or specialist surveyor. The introductory letter that accompanied the filing of the 
petition discussed the Petitioner's "deep experience at sea as a deck officer," his accreditation as a 
"Surveyor and Auditor," his educational work as a college lecturer, and his work as a "casualty 
investigator ... when a marine casualty occurs or a claim has arisen." The 13-page letter contains no 
mention ofi I and the articles aboutl I do not discuss any of those listed facets of 
the Petitioner's career and credentials. As such, the submitted articles are, at best, tangential to the areas 
in which the Petitioner specifically claims extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed two specific contributions: .----------~-~~-------~---r--~ maritime law, and teaching courses at the . The L...------,------------------~ Petitioner does not pursue these claims on appeal. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner stated that he "was appointed as the president of 
.__ ____ _.I by an official resolution of.__ _____ ~ ____ because he was "the most qualified 
4 
person to handle the financial crisis of thel I fishing compan~~----~ The Petitioner 
asserted that he "was able to recover the company, paid the debts of all the employees, recover[ ed] vessels 
and paid outstanding debts with creditors." 
The Director stated that the Petitioner did not establish how his work for~I ---~!relates to the field 
of marine surveying and consulting, which is the area in which he claims extraordinary ability. On appeal, 
the Petitioner discusses the economic importance orl l as a major employer and food source 
but does not address this fundamental point. Because the Petitioner has not shown that his work for 
I lwas a contribution in the field of maritime surveying and consulting, discussion of the 
significance of the contribution cannot establish eligibility. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion (concerning 
high salary or significantly high remuneration for services) cannot change the outcome of this appeal 
as the Petitioner has only satisfied one of the criteria discussed above. Therefore, we reserve that 
issue. 3 For the same reason, we also reserve the issues of the Petitioner's intention to continue working 
in the field of claimed extraordinary ability and prospective benefit to the United States. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. Possession of a variety of credentials does not meet this high threshold. The 
Petitioner has sought to establish eligibility with piecemeal evidence pertaining to somewhat related, but 
nevertheless separate and distinct, fields (maritime surveying and executive leadership of a fishery) within 
the much broader category of maritime endeavors. The Petitioner asserts that his "area of expertise is the 
maritime field," but this is a broad umbrella term rather than a single, coherent field of endeavor. Here, 
the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 20, 2023 In Re: 23099341 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biomedical researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the sciences. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria required for 
eligibility. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011); Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-92 (5th Cir. 2022). 
However, USCIS may revoke its approval of an immigrant visa petition "at any time" for "good and 
sufficient cause." Section 205 ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. The realization that a petition was approved 
in error may be good and sufficient cause for revoking its approval. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
590 (BIA 1988). USCIS may issue a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) a petition's approval if the 
unexplained and unrebutted record at the time of the notice's issuance would have warranted the 
filing' s denial based on the petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Matter ofEs time, 19 I&N 
Dec. 450,451 (BIA) 1987). The NOIR provides the opportunity to submit evidence in support of the 
petition and in opposition to the alleged grounds for revocation. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b ). If the NOIR 
response does not rebut or resolve revocation grounds stated in the notice, USCIS properly revokes a 
petition's approval. Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451-52. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a biomedical researcher, and intends to continue this pursuit in the United States. In 
her initial petition, she stated that she qualifies for the extraordinary ability classification under the 
following three evidentiary grounds: 1 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles in the field. 
The Petitioner's case was approved in April 2021. In May 2021, the Director issued a request for 
evidence (RFE), stating that the Petitioner had met the evidentiary criteria for participation as a judge 
and authorship of scholarly articles and requesting further documentation of her contributions to her 
field in order to establish her eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 2 Upon 
receiving the Petitioner's timely response, the Director issued an NOIR stating that the petition had 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not establish, that she has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) of the Act. 
2 The Petitioner correctly notes that RFEs should not be issued for previously-approved petitions. Under 8 C.F.R. § 205.2 
and § 204.S(n), an approved T-140 remains valid indefinitely unless it is properly revoked, which requires the issuance of 
an NOIR. However, the Director subsequently issued a proper NOIR based solely on the evidence in the record at the time 
of the petition's approval, to which the Petitioner had a full opportunity to respond. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b). As such. this 
procedural error has been remedied and we will not address it further. 
2 
been approved in error because the record only established the Petitioner's eligibility for two criteria 
instead of the required three. The Director again stated that the Petitioner had established her 
authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a judge, and requested farther documentation 
of the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance to her field. The Petitioner provided a 
timely response, and the petition's approval was subsequently revoked with a finding that the 
Petitioner did not meet at least three of the required ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. The Director Properly Issued the Notice oflntent to Revoke 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director had no authority to revoke the petition's approval 
because "[t]he revoking officer did not state that the original adjudicating officer was unreasonable 
in 
his or her original conclusion that the evidence was sufficient" and didn't cite an error in the approval 
apart from a lack ofsufficient probative, relevant, and credible evidence establishing that the Petitioner 
had made a major contribution to her field. According to the appellate brief, this subjected the petition 
to "a higher standard of review ... not rooted in law or policy guidance" but instead "a matter of 
subjective opinion." We disagree. 
An officer issuing an NOIR does not need to demonstrate a "clear error" in the prior decision or to 
show that the approving officer was "unreasonable," as claimed by the Petitioner, but only to find that 
the unrebutted record at the time of the NOIR' s issuance would merit the petition's denial based on 
the petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. If 
supported by the record, the realization that an approval was made in error may, in and of itself: be 
"good and sufficient cause" for revoking a petition. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 590. 
Furthermore, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofOtiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013); Matter 
ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012); Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 588-89; 
Matter of Brantigan, 11 I&N Dec. 493, 495 (BIA 1966). This burden remains with the petitioner 
throughout revocation proceedings. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 588-89, Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 452 n.1 ( citations omitted). 
In order to meet their burden of proof, a petitioner must submit relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence leading us to believe that their claim is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76 (AAO 2010) (citing Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (BIA 
1989)) (explaining the "preponderance of the evidence" evidentiary standard petitioners must meet in 
these proceedings). A failure to meet this burden as to a material claim is sufficient to merit a petition's 
denial, and therefore sufficient to merit the revocation of its approval. Id.; Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 451. Upon de novo review of the entire record, we conclude that at the time of the petitioner's 
approval, the Petitioner did not meet this burden of proof regarding her contributions to her field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As such, the Director had good and sufficient cause to issue the NOIR. 
Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. 
The Petitioner farther claims that NOIR did not state a good and sufficient cause for revocation 
because it did not "include a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, 
but also of the supporting evidence." Id. at 451-52. According to the appellate brief: the NOIR was 
issued "without acknowledging any discrepancies from the approval or what evidence is in question," 
3 
and so did not provide an adequate explanation of the grounds of revocation. However, as explained 
above, an NOIR need only explain why the unrebutted record at the time of its issuance would merit 
the petition's denial based on a petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Id. at 451. In the 
present case, the NOIR properly explains why the evidence of record at the time of the petition's 
approval was insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof and establish she had made a majorly 
significant contribution to her field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
For example, the notice states that the Petitioner's listing as a co-inventor on a patent does not, in and 
of itself: establish the significance of the underlying invention to the Petitioner's field, and that the 
record did not include corroborating documentation showing that the patent had resulted in significant 
commercial sales or had an impact on others in her field. This articulates why the patent 
documentation does not include the information needed to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof and 
show it is more likely than not that the invention documented in the patent is majorly significant to 
her field. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. The Director similarly provides reasoned 
explanations of why the remainder of the evidence did not establish, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that any ofthe Petitioner's contributions to her field were ofmajor significance. Id., 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). As explained in the NOIR, this meant that the evidence at the time of the approval 
did not meet at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and so did not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
The NOIR is supported by the record and explains why the petition's approval was in error, and 
therefore states a good and sufficient cause for revoking that approval. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 
590. However, as detailed below, the Petitioner has since overcome the NOIR's concerns and 
established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
B. Contribution of Major Significance to the Field 
The second issue on appeal is whether the record establishes that the Petitioner has made a scientific 
contribution of major significance to her field of pharmacology. 3 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On 
appeal, the Petitioner contends that the revocation was in error because "the statutory and regulatory 
framework defining eligibility for immigrant status as an alien of extraordinary ability nowhere 
requires that each and every research contribution by a petitioner be demonstrated to be majorly 
significant; the framework only requires that, as a whole, a petitioner's work be demonstrative of 
national or international acclaim in his or her field of expertise ..." ( emphases removed). 
We agree that the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) only requires evidence that a noncitizen 
made "contributions of major significance," not evidence that all of a noncitizen's work meets this 
standard. However, the Petitioner's interpretation of this criterion conflates it with the final merits 
evaluation under Kazarian, which is not applicable unless she can first show that she meets at least 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 
24 F.4th 383, 391-92. As stated by the Director in the NOIR, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires a 
showing that the Petitioner has made a specific contribution to her field, that this contribution was 
original, and that this contribution was majorly significant to the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
3 It is noted that while the regulatory language calls for plural "contributions," a singular contribution may be sufficient to 
establish eligibility. See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 
Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (describing factors to be considered in evaluating this criterion). While the 
Petitioner puts forward various arguments about how her overall citation record establishes her 
eligibility for this criterion, the issue of whether her body of work is indicative of national or 
international acclaim is one that USCIS does not reach until the final merits analysis. Id.; Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. For this criterion, we will instead examine the originality and significance ofthe 
Petitioner's stated achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner identifies three achievements as qualifying her for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v): her development of a "never-before-seen PTX/FTS4 combination therapy for cancer 
treatment," the "widespread commentary" caused by being "the first scientist to discover the deadly 
side effects of PTX, the best-selling cancer drug," and being "the first scientist to create a prodrug­
based NLG919 molecule, pioneering a new approach to immunochemotherapy." 5 Upon review, the 
Petitioner has submitted sufficient documentation to establish that her 2016 paper6 in Nature 
Communications regarding the prodrug-based NLG919 molecule is an original and majorly significant 
contribution to the field. 
According to the support letter from Professor J-H-ofl !university, the Petitioner "creatively 
designed and synthesized a unique prodrug-based NLG919 molecule" that constitutes "a novel multi­
functional drug delivery system for immunotherapy." Professor L-X-of the University! I 
who collaborated with the Petitioner through her doctoral advisor, states that "[h ]er work on 
multifunctional nanocarriers was one of the first to focus on properly designed ... prodrugs" and has 
had success in breast cancer animal models. He further states that this work was a "driving force to a 
major revision in our thinking about the design of new drug carriers and reinvigoration of a field that 
had reached a conceptual dead end." Professor R-K-, of1 I further explains 
that the Petitioner's work "showed that the new combination of drugs can achieve synergistic effect 
while using a functional nanocarrier" and helped "overcome obstacles ... and solve the problem of 
delivery drug combination with different pharmacokinetics and solubilities." Professor K-P-of 
I I University states that this work created "a novel method to effectively induce 
immunogenic tumor cell death, pioneering a new approach for cancer immunotherapy," and describes 
how it inspired further research. This is supported by various sample citations provided by the 
Petitioner, showing that the article was considered notable by others in the field. 
The article's Google Scholar record and the corresponding documentation from Clarivate Analytics 
demonstrating the article's noteworthy citation record further indicate that the Nature Communications 
paper was a majorly significant contribution to the Petitioner's field of pharmacology. Finally, the 
record indicates that this paper provided much of the preliminary data for a related grant proposal that 
ultimately received funding from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). 7 We therefore conclude that 
4 PTX is an abbreviation of Paclitaxel, a chemotherapy medication also known commercially as Taxol. FTS is an 
abbreviation oftrans-famesylthiosalicylic acid, a synthetic molecule used in cancer treatment research. 
5 While we will not address every claim made in each ofthe Petitioner's letters ofsupport, we have considered and analyzed 
each one. 
6 The Petitioner was one of the paper's three equal first authors. 
7 We note that the Petitioner's appellate brief states that she "has received grants from the National Cancer Institute" based 
on her NLG919 research. However, the grant proposal included in the record is authored by the principal investigator, 
S-L-(the Petitioner's doctoral advisor), and includes a list ofall ofthe investigators to be involved in the proposed research, 
5 
the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence her eligibility under the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
C. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has met three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and has 
overcome the Director's ground of revocation. As such, the Director must make a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if it establishes her extraordinary ability in her field of endeavor. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 8 Because the Director did not perform a final merits determination in their decision, we are 
remanding this matter for them to do so. 
On remand, the Director should examine all of the evidence in the record and determine whether it 
shows, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner's achievements have translated into a 
level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the revocation ground, we will remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can make a final merits determination 
in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
noting their expe11ise and contributions to the preliminary data in the grant proposal. This list does not include the 
Petitioner. As noted above, the Petitioner's 2016 Nature Communications paper provides much of the proposal's 
preliminary data. However, as S-L-is the author and principal investigator of the grant proposal, which does not list the 
Petitioner as pa11 of the research team, it is not apparent that the Petitioner was awarded this grant, as claimed in her brief. 
Where there are discrepancies in the evidence, it is the Petitioner's burden to resolve these discrepancies using independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 T&N Dec. at 591-92. The Petitioner has not resolved 
the discrepancy between her claim that she has received NCI funding for her research and the documentation indicating 
that she was not one of the listed investigators on the relevant grant proposal, and this issue should be addressed on remand. 
8 Some factors that may establish that a noncitizen has extraordinary ability include senior or primary authorship ofarticles 
in pa11icularly high-ranked journals, a total rate of citations which is high relative to others in the field, and employment 
or research experience with leading institutions in the field. See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
Examples relevant to the Petitioner's field may be found in the credentials of the experts who wrote letters on her behalf 
in this case. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 20, 2023 In Re: 28425175 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician with specialized trammg in orthopedics and traumatology, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either through his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, by submitting evidence that satisfies 
at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a petitioner meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical doctor who completed a post-graduate specialization and residency in 
orthopedics and traumatology in 2016. His professional experience includes both clinical practice as 
a hospital-based consulting physician in this specialty, and academic experience as a lecturer and 
associate professor. At the time of filing, he was also enrolled in a joint masters/Ph.D. program in 
molecular oncology at a Turkish university. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed eligibility under five of the ten criteria. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging 
the work of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
respectively. The record supports this determination based on evidence that the Petitioner has provided 
his services as a peer reviewer for several scientific journals in the medical field, and evidence that he 
has co-authored and published scholarly articles in professional publications such as medical journals 
and conference proceedings. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to support his claim that 
he can satisfy the evidentiary criteria relating to memberships in associations in his field, published 
material about him and his work, and original contributions of major significance. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii) and (v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets all three ofthese criteria 
and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he is a member of several associations in his field and 
that such memberships satisfy the plain language of this criterion. These memberships include: 1 
• Turkish Educational Council of Orthopedics and Traumatology (TOPEK) 
• Turkish Orthopedics and Traumatology Association (TOTBID) 
• TOTBID -I IBranch 
• Medical Malpractice Association .-----------------, 
• Turkish Medical Association -~-----------~ 
With respect to his membership in TOPEK, the Petitioner provided a certificate indicating that he 
became a member of the association in October 2021 after completing the "TOTBID-TOPEK Board 
Examination" in September 2016 and June 2021. The record also contains a document titled "TOTEK 
Directive" which describes TOTEK as a "sub-working group ofTOTBID," which has its own council 
assembly, board ofdirectors and working groups. This directive sets forth the structure ofthe TOTEK 
council assembly and board, the duties they perform, and the minimum qualifications for positions on 
these governing bodies but does not expressly state the general requirements or process for admitting 
regular members to TOTEK. 
Section IV, Articles 13 and 14 ofthe TOTEK Directive discuss the TOTEK Certification Examination, 
noting that the exam is given in two stages, and those that successfully complete the examination 
receive the TOTEK certificate. While this directive indicates that candidates need to provide certain 
information to be admitted to the certificate exam, it does not specify what other information is 
collected and considered, nor does it indicate that receipt of the TOTEK certificate alone conveys 
membership. Even if we were to conclude that every candidate who passes the examination is 
admitted as a member of TOTEK, the record provides insufficient support for the Petitioner's claim 
that passing a standard examination in one's medical specialty is an "outstanding achievement" in and 
of itself. It is unclear what, if any, other factors are considered as a condition of membership and 
whether a candidate's achievements must otherwise be judged as "outstanding" by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence of his membership in TOTBID along with this association's 
bylaws, which directly address its membership requirements and procedures. The bylaws indicate that 
principal members are "those who adopt the subject and purpose of the association and provide 
material and moral support to its activities[;] those who want to be present; orthopedic and 
traumatology specialists with legal capacity to act ...." The bylaws state that candidates must submit 
a written application and are accepted "with the proposal of the member and the decision of the board 
of directors." The Petitioner emphasized that, based on these requirements, "only an expert working 
in the field of Orthopedics and Traumatology" can successfully apply, and, given that applicants must 
have a reference and be endorsed by the board of directors, "it is evident that TOTBID requires 
outstanding achievements from their members." 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in thel IHealth Workers 
Association and thel I Sport Club but did not pursue this claim in response to the Director's RFE. Neveitheless, 
we note the record does not contain evidence of the requirements for membership in these associations and therefore the 
Petitioner did not establish that his membership satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
3 
The record does not provide sufficient support for the Petitioner's claim that TOTBID requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized experts in the field, as an essential condition for 
membership. Although the submitted evidence reflects that TOTBID membership applications are 
ultimately reviewed by the association's board of directors, it does not indicate what specific criteria 
the board considers, what, if any, achievements are required, and whether such achievements must be 
judged as outstanding in order for a favorable determination to be made on a membership application. 
The Petitioner also documented his membership in the '.____________ __. branch of 
TOTBID and provided a copy of the member registration form for this branch listing the documentary 
requirements for registration. Prospective branch members must document that they have worked in 
this orthopedic specialization for at least two years, participated in at least two scientific meetings in 
the field ofl Ipublished two journal articles in this field ( or had two manuscripts 
accepted by journals), and provide references from two existing branch members. The record reflects 
that membership in this TOTBID branch has additional requirements beyond those for membership in 
TOTBID, and that such requirements ensure that accepted members are active in thel II I specialty and have published or presented some research in the field. However, the 
evidence does not document the association's process for reviewing membership applications or 
establish that only prospective members who are judged by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field are admitted. We cannot conclude based on 
the evidence submitted that participating in two scientific meetings or publishing two articles rises to 
the level of "outstanding achievements" in the field. 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the Turkish Medical Malpractice 
Association, along with a copy of the association's charter, with an English translation. The 
association is described as "an association of doctors and other allied health professionals within the 
medical and pharmacy profession." The association's charter describes the "Right to Become a 
Member and Membership Procedures" at Article 5; however, the English translation of this portion of 
the document is truncated at the bottom of the page, with some information missing. The missing 
information appears to be the section discussing the conditions for membership, as the following page 
begins with the statement: "Every natural and legal person who meets the conditions has the right to 
become a member of the association. No reference is required, individual application is sufficient." 
Based on the submitted documentation, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Turkish Medical 
Malpractice Association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence of his membership in the .___________ __,of the 
Union of Turkish Physicians which is part of the Turkish Medical Association, along with the laws of 
the association. The Petitioner emphasized that members must be medical school graduates authorized 
to practice medicine within the borders of Turkey, and notes that the membership registration form 
requires details about the applicant such as medical school graduation date, specialist degree details, and 
details about their employment. However, an association that admits members based solely on factors 
such as a minimum level of education or employment in a specific occupation is not considered to be an 
association that admits members based on outstanding achievements. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing evaluation of evidence submitted 
in support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
Without evidence indicating that the associations that granted him membership require outstanding 
achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international 
experts, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support ofthis criterion, the Petitioner provided evidence that he was a guest on programs aired on the 
Turkish television channels STAR TV and CNN Turk TV and that he was interviewed for articles 
published online by the Turkish newspapers~--------------------~ and on the website of CNN Turk TV. 
The Director acknowledged that the evidence reflects that the Petitioner has been interviewed about bone 
pain, bone tumors and pathological fractures, and that he provided information about carpal tunnel 
syndrome in a short, televised segment. The Director determined, however, that the subject ofthe articles 
and televised segments was to inform readers and viewers about these specific medical issues, not to 
discuss the Petitioner and his work in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted 
"several published materials" that are about him and relate to his work in orthopedics, traumataology and 
cancer research. However, he does not address the Director's specific reasons for concluding that he did 
not meet this criterion. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the submitted published materials and televised segments 
are about the symptoms, origin o±: and treatment for conditions such as bone cancer, carpal tunnel 
syndrome and pathological bone fractures, as opposed to published materials about the Petitioner. While 
these informative articles and interviews identify the Petitioner by name, identify his medical specialty, 
and quote him, do not discuss him, his background, his clinical practice or research, or otherwise address 
his work in the field. Any materials a petitioner submits must demonstrate the value of their work and 
contributions. While published materials submitted under this criterion need not be solely about the 
individual and their work, any material covering a broader topic should include a substantial discussion 
ofthe person's work in the field and mention the petitioner in relation to the work. See generally 6 USC IS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). The fact that the Petitioner was invited to speak as an expert on topics 
related to his medical specialty is noted and may be relevant in a final merits determination, where we 
consider whether the individual has sustained acclaim and has been recognized for their achievements. 
However, the published materials provided do not satisfy the plain language ofthe regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that he has been the subject of published material 
about him and his work in his field, he did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his published research articles and book 
chapter, citation evidence for his published work, evidence of his participation in conferences 
5 
(including evidence that he received a 1 taward in 2016), evidence of university classes he 
has taught, training certificates, and letters of support from experts in the field. The Director 
considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has made original contributions ofmajor significance in this field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish that he satisfies this criterion. For 
the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director's determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others 
working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in the 
field may be probative of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner references his completion of training and certificate programs in his field and asserts 
that "all these certificates have made original scientific contributions of major significance to his field 
of expertise." Specifically, the Petitioner notes that "training certificates can provide researchers with 
valuable skills and knowledge that can contribute to their scientific work and the broader field," by 
improving their research methodology, introducing new techniques and technologies, expanding their 
knowledge basis, and providing networking and career advancement opportunities. While we do not 
dispute the value of ongoing professional training and development, the focus of this criterion is on 
the significance of an individual's existing original contributions and evidence that such contributions 
have already demonstrably influenced or impacted the field in a manner indicative of their major 
significance. Completion of specialized training with the goal of expanding one's knowledge and 
advancing one's career is not an original contribution in of itself. 
Regarding his teaching activities as a lecturer and associate professor, the Petitioner asserts that 
lecturers "provide a contribution to the academic field in which they work as they educate young 
people that are modem, inquisitive and equipped with all the qualifications." He provides evidence 
that he has taught courses intended for second year undergraduate students in physiotherapy and 
rehabilitation and fifth year medical students, noting that he "contributes to his academic field by 
raising medical students." While the evidence shows the Petitioner has contributed to his field by 
teaching advanced academic content and clinical skills to upper level medical students, the evidence 
does not establish how his teaching activities represent an original contribution of major significance 
in his field, or how such activities had an impact that reached beyond the students who enrolled in his 
courses. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has published journal articles and an academic book chapter 
and delivered poster and paper presentations at conferences in his field, noting that such activities "are 
crucial to the advancement ofresearch in any field." We agree that these activities provide researchers 
with platforms to disseminate their original research findings to a wider audience and potentially 
encourage farther research that advances the broader field. However, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of his articles in notable journals or textbooks or presentation of work 
at reputable medical conferences necessarily demonstrates that the field has recognized the major 
significance of his original contributions. For example, the Petitioner stated that "writing an academic 
book chapter is a significant undertaking that can have a major impact on a field of study," but he did 
not articulate how the specific book chapter that he authored, which appeared in a 2016 academic 
6 
textbook titledl Iis a significant contribution of major significance in his field. Publications 
and presentations satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but these activities alone are not 
sufficient to establish a researcher's eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); not every article 
published in a distinguished journal or conference automatically indicates a scientific contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
The record includes the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile showing that his published research 
articles had received 31 cumulative citations as of January 2023. The information from Google 
Scholar farther indicated that the Petitioner's three highest cited articles, published in 2020, 2018 and 
2021, received 7, 6, and 5 citations, respectively, and that he had eight additional publications that 
received at least one citation.2 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken 
interest in an individual's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown 
that the number ofcitations for any ofhis published work is commensurate with contributions ofmajor 
significance in the field. He did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his 
articles, nor has he shown that the number of citations is unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Without comparative 
statistical evidence indicating the frequency at which other articles in the Petitioner's field are cited, 
for example, he has not demonstrated that the number of citations received by his published and 
presented work is indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of evidence that his paper titled'! d 
' received th~ 1----.------------------------------~~-~Award at the 26th National Turkish Orthopedics and Traumatology Congress. The award 
undoubtedly recognized the quality and originality of the research, but the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that it recognizes the work as an original 
contribution ofmajor significance in the field. This awarded paper does not appear on the Petitioner's 
Google Scholar profile and the record does not otherwise show that it has been highly cited or 
provoked widespread commentary among others performing research in the field. Further, the 
Petitioner does not specifically articulate how the research that earned him aI I award has 
been recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather he broadly states that 
receiving such an award "can have a profound impact on [a researcher's] personal and professional 
development as well as on their field as a whole." 
Additionally, the Petitioner points to his submission of several recommendation letters from experts 
in the field. 3 These experts discussed the Petitioner's specialized training and research in the field of 
orthopedics, oncology, and traumatology, but their statements do not demonstrate that his original 
work is of major significance in the field. As discussed below, the reference letters do not offer 
sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, 
to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that 
have been of major significance. 
For example, Dr. G-M-, a medical school professor who served as the Petitioner's academic supervisor 
for his specialization degree, indicates that he worked with the Petitioner on four different research 
2 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations for each of these individual articles were self-citations. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
projects which were "published in high-quality academic journals and presented at the prestigious 
congress." Dr. G-M-briefly describes these projects but does not explain how the Petitioner's 
published work has impacted the field in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes a contribution of 
major significance. We recognize that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in 
some way to be accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every research study that 
broadens knowledge in a particular field constitutes a contribution of major significance in that field. 
Dr. G-M-further praises the Petitioner's research skills, states that he continues to work on "a very 
important project on orthopedics and traumatology," and opines that his work is "excellent, novel and 
unsurpassed," in part due to its "direct practical applications to the health of many." However, his 
letter does not elaborate on the Petitioner's "very important project" and its "direct practical 
applications" and the significance of these contributions to their shared field of endeavor. 
Dr. E-U-, who serves as the director of a molecular cancer research center at a Turkish university, 
states that the Petitioner has made significant contributions to the field of cancer research. 
Specifically, he notes that the Petitioner's 2018 article published in Hand and Microsurgery Journal 
in 2018 represents "a very important contribution in the field" because he found that most hand tumors 
are benign and should not be treated prior to receiving biopsy results. Dr. E-U-states that this article 
"has been cited by many researchers in the field," and generally asserts, without offering specifics, 
that the Petitioner has authored "many other significant research articles and has conducted 
outstanding research with extraordinary findings, contributing to the field in a variety of ways." The 
Petitioner's Google Scholar profile indicates that the referenced 2018 article had been cited six times 
as of 2023, but this evidence alone does not provide sufficient support for Dr. E-U's statement that it 
has been cited at a level indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, Dr. K-O-, head of orthopedics and traumatology surgical sciences at a Turkish medical 
school, discusses the breadth of the Petitioner's academic and clinical activities, noting his receipt of 
al Iaward, his publication of a book chapter, his participation in national and international 
conferences and workshops, his teaching role as an associate professor, and their co-authorship of two 
articles published in 2022. With respect to these articles, he states that he believes their studies "will 
be beneficial for the field of orthopedics and traumatology" but does not further elaborate. While Dr. 
K-O-further states that the Petitioner "has made and continues to make significant ... contributions" 
to the field, he did not offer specific examples indicating that his published or presented work or 
teaching activities have provoked widespread commentary from others working in the field or have 
otherwise been impactful to the extent that they are of major significance in his field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from Drs. P-R-, J-J-and S-S-. Although these 
letters praise the Petitioner's work and expertise in the orthopedics and traumatology medical 
specialty, they do not demonstrate how his original contributions are "of major significance in the 
field." Instead, the letters reference the importance of the Petitioner's works as indicated by their 
publication in professional journals and presentation at medical conferences. While the selection of 
the Petitioner's articles for publication in professional journals and conferences verifies the originality 
of his work, it does not necessarily reflect that his research and findings are considered of major 
significance. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through his citation history or other 
relevant evidence that his work, once published or presented, has been highly cited or provoked 
widespread commentary. 
8 
I For example, Dr. J-J-highlights the Petitioner's 2021 article'~------------~Ias "one of the most comprehensive and important research to prove that 
the ilium is the most common metastatic bone region of the pelvis." However, the record reflects that 
the referenced paper had only one citation as of 2023 and contains no other evidence that would 
corroborate Dr. J-J-'s statement regarding the importance or influence of this paper in their shared 
field. Dr. P-R-similarly highlights two ofthe Petitioner's 2021 publications as representing important 
and "very impactfol research contributions," but the referenced articles had received only one or two 
citations and he did not otherwise elaborate on how the Petitioner's published work represented 
original contributions of major significance. 
Overall, the submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Detailed letters from 
experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's contribution may provide 
valuable context for evaluating a claimed original contribution of major significance. However, such 
letters are more persuasive when they specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance, and when the record contains documentation corroborating the claimed significance. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). While some of the submitted letters are lengthy, they do 
not specifically describe the significance of the Petitioner's original contributions and are not 
sufficiently corroborated by other evidence in the record. 
Without sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that he meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. 4 Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, although the Petitioner has 
achieved professional success as a clinical physician, professor, and academic researcher, the record 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 
does not demonstrate that he has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and 
that he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22993456 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 21, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a radiologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
When the Petitioner filed the petition, she was employed as a clinical assistant professor a 
University! JSchool of Medicine, and an assi tant att n in h i ian at I I Hospitals, in 0-1 A nonimmigrant status. Subsequently, ___________ 
Center filed a nonimmigrant petition, approved in August 2022, again to classify her as an O-lA 
nonimmigrant. In May 2021, the Petitioner filed another immigrant petition on her own behalf, 
seeking classification as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, with a national 
interest waiver of the job offer requirement. The Director of the Nebraska Service Center approved 
that petition in February 2022. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met four of the criteria, pertaining to judging, contributions, 
scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets 
the criteria pertaining to membership in associations and published material about her. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of 
the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial 
evidence, we need not discuss the individual criteria in further detail. Instead, below, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility. 
Some of the appeal concerns individual threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The final merits 
determination, however, addresses the broader question of whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim in her field. Further 
discussion of the specific requirements of additional criteria would not directly affect the remaining 
issue of sustained national or international acclaim. 
Throughout the appeal, the Petitioner conflates the initial evidentiary criteria and the final merits 
determination, asserting that, by satisfying those initial criteria, "she has achieved national acclaim." 
For instance, she asserts on appeal that her "numerous publications and her status as First Author on 
most of these publications clearly indicate that she has risen to the top of her field and has achieved 
national acclaim." The Petitioner does not explain, on appeal, how either of these factors inherently 
convey or reflect sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner contends that "[aa] physician must be recognized as a true expert and leader on the topic 
in order to be First Author." But, by definition, every collaborative article has a first author. 
Depending on the method used to determine the order of author credits, the first author of a given 
article may have led the individual project or study that forms the basis for that article, but the 
comparison is necessarily limited to the co-authors of that single article; it does not reflect or imply 
any higher standing in the field overall. 
To support her assertions about first authorship, the Petitioner cites two previously submitted letters 
from two ofhermentorsJ of Health System and I of 
the !University of I Those letters, however, do not equate first authorship with 
broader acclaim or reco nition. simply acknowledged that the Petitioner was first author 
of their shared paper.,__ ___ stated that, as first author, the Petitioner "had a leading role in the 
research, writing, and conduct of the project." This assertion is considerably more limited in scope 
than the expansive proposition offered on appeal, that a high proportion of first author credits indicates 
national acclaim at the top of the field. 
It bears noting that other information in those letters indicate thatl landl I and 
writers of other letters in the record, each occupy positions considerably higher than the Petitioner, 
which is directly relevant when considering whether the Petitioner has reached the top of her field. I I has held leadership roles at prestigious universities, andl I served as I 
of the American Board of Nuclear Medicine and has "been annually selected as one of the I 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
3 
in America since 2005." The Petitioner asserted that her "numerous publications" also show her 
stature in the field, but she has not shown that the quantity of articles written is a reliable gauge of 
acclaim. Even then, whereas her own curriculum vitae showed 20 peer-reviewed articles at the time 
of filing,I I claimed 78 such articles, and I l"more than 250." These individuals 
have sincerely attested to the Petitioner's talent and dedication, but the Petitioner has not shown that 
her stature in the field is comparable to theirs. These individuals did not attest to the Petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim, instead offering more measured assertions that she "has 
made innumerable contributions to the field of nuclear medicine" and '"is clearly respected by her 
peers." Other letters in the record follow a similar pattern, praising specific achievements and offering 
general assertions such as stating the Petitioner's "research has been cited numerous researchers," 
without providing objective means of measuring the Petitioner's relative stature in the field. 
When considering the question of where the Petitioner stands in relation to others in the field, it is 
significant that her claimed prizes and awards are for fellows and residents in advanced stages of 
professional training, rather than for already-established experts in the field. The Petitioner may have 
achieved more than most in the earliest stages of her career, but she must establish sustained national 
or international acclaim in the field as a whole, rather than in the subset of the youngest or newest 
practitioners in that field. 
The Director had noted that the Petitioner's most-cited article had earned only 14 citations at the time 
of filing; her aggregate total number of citations was 85. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the 
Director "dismissed the impressive number of citations of [the Petitioner's] published work and 
mistakenly held that 'citations to one's published works does [sic] not equate to national or 
international acclaim.'" By disputing the Director's quoted language, the Petitioner essentially 
contends that citations do "equate to national or international acclaim." The Petitioner has not shown 
this to be so. 
The Petitioner cites Kazarian and the USCIS Policy Manual regarding the value of citations, but 
neither of those sources indicates that every cited author is nationally or internationally acclaimed. 
The USCIS Policy Manual indicates that citations "may be indicative of the significance of the 
person's contributions," and that the quantity of those citations is another relevant factor. 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In Kazarian, the Ninth Circuit 
stated that "other authors' citations (or a lack thereof) might be relevant to the final merits 
determination." Kazarian, 596 F.3dat 1121. These passages support, ratherthanrefote, the Director's 
conclusion that "citations to one's published works do[] not equate to national or international 
acclaim." Citations are one factor to be considered among many. 
The Petitioner cites no comparative figures to establish that she has accumulated an "impressive 
number of citations" relative to others in her field. Instead, the Petitioner focuses on one particular 
citation. The Petitioner states that one of her articles was "cited and discussed in the Clinical Practice 
Guidelines of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network" (NCCN), which "set the standard for the 
most appropriate clinical care across the United States and internationally." The record shows that an 
article by the Petitioner is one of 144 sources cited in the NCCN Guidelines Jo 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to show that the inclusion of her article among these 
sources "sets her apart from her peers as one of a small percentage of nuclear medicine physicians 
who has risen to the top of her field, as she is looked to as the leading national expert on the treatment 
4 
of this disease." The Petitioner has not established that the NCCN only cited the work of "leading 
national expert[ s ]" when compiling source material. 
We further note that the Guidelines, as submitted, show a publication date of September 2021, several 
months after the Petitioner filed her petition in May 2021. Therefore, even if this citation had the 
weight that the Petitioner contends, it still would not help to establish eligibility as of the filing date 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1), which requires a petitioner to meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing. 
Congress contemplated that individuals who qualify for this criterion will be able to show a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, which requires "extensive documentation" of recognition. The Petitioner 
has not met this burden. The record often lacks evidentiary support for the Petitioner's claims 
regarding the significance of various achievements and events. Forinstancel I asserted that 
the Petitioner's "outstanding achievements" resulted in her selection as a committee member for the 
Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging (SNMMI), but the record contains no 
contemporaneous documentation relating to the nomination and selection of the Petitioner or the more 
than 20 other members of that committee. The SNMMI's bylaws identify who may nominate 
committee members but do not specify minimum requirements for such memberships. Likewise, the 
Petitioner asserts that her recognition is evident from having been "invited to present at prestigious 
national conferences," but she cites no record exhibits to show that these invitations resulted from 
sustained national or international acclaimratherthan from lesser considerations such as subject matter 
expertise, preexisting relationships with conference organizers, or open calls for submissions. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has established her involvement in peer review of manuscripts submitted for 
publication in scholarly journals, but she has not met her burden of proof to support her claim that 
"peer review of prominent, national and international medical journals is similar to judging a national 
competition for top athletes." The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that the process for 
selecting peer reviewers, at the journals where she has conducted such review, is comparable to the 
process for selecting judges for national athletic competitions, and she has not rebutted the Director's 
core determination that "[p]Jeer review is routine in the field; not every peer reviewer enjoys sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner has conducted research at prestigious institutions, and in this way she has contributed 
to her field, but the Petitioner has not shown that, in doing so, she has attained sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner contends that her acclaim is evident from publicity that her work 
has received, but the submitted articles do not single her out for notice or explain how the Petitioner's 
work is of particular significance; they do little more than summarize the petitioner's articles. One of 
these articles, in Medpage Today, is labeled as having been "created ... on behalf of an advertiser." 
The Petitioner, who bears the burden of proof, has not established or explained how articles of this 
kind are tantamount to sustained national acclaim, or how they show that the Petitioner's work has 
attracted an unusually high level of interest in the field, such that she derived sustained national 
acclaim from that research as she asserts. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to 
establish eligibility for the classification she seeks. 
5 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USC IS) has approved two 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior 
approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based 
on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are 
denied after USCIS approves prior nonimrnigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 
293 F. Supp. 2d25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48F. Supp. 2d22(D.D.C. 1999); 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a collli of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration 
petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim required by section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Rather, 
the record indicates that the Petitioner has trained at prestigious institutions, where she has had the 
opportunity to participate in influential research, but the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to 
show that the recognition from her involvement in that research has resulted in sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 21, 2024 In Re: 34029990 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fine art painter, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference 
immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . Successful petitioners for U.S. 
permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" 
and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met the category's initial evidentiary requirements. But, in a final merits determination, the 
Director found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's claimed extraordinary ability in his field. On 
appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director misanalysed and disregarded evidence of his ability. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the evidence, in the aggregate, does not place him among the small percentage 
at his field's very top. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either standard, USCTS must then make a final 
merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,391 (5th Cir. 2022) (holding that USCTS' two-step 
analysis "is consistent with the governing statute and regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record 
shows that the Petitioner, a Georgian native and citizen, has been creating art since he was 
a small child. He complied with his father's wishes by obtaining a degree from an agricultural institute 
in his home country. But the Petitioner never worked in that field. Instead, he used his diploma as 
part of an art piece he created and became a professional painter. He began as a hyperrealist painter 
but ultimately developed his style in modernistic impressionism. He had his first personal exhibition 
in Georgia in 2007. Five years later, he received his country's medal of honor for his art. In 2018, he 
received a similar award from Ukraine. The Petitioner's paintings have been displayed around the 
world, including multiple times at the annuall INew York, which attracts tens of thousands of 
collectors, dealers, and art lovers. 
The Petitioner states that, since last arriving in the United States in 2023, he has continued creating 
art. He says he intends to permanently paint in this country and has signed contracts with two U.S. art 
dealers. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of an internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). The record supports the Director's findings that he satisfied three 
requirements regarding: 
• his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• his participation as a judge of others' work in his field; and 
• the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he met five other evidentiary criteria. But, because he has 
satisfied the required minimum, we need not determine whether he meets any other evidentiary 
requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make 
"purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
B. The Final Merits Determination 
To establish extraordinary ability, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that they have sustained national or 
international acclaim and that their achievements have been recognized in their field, identifying them 
as one of that small percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(2). "[T]he petitioner must explain the significance of the submitted evidence, and 
how it demonstrates that the person has achieved sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognition in their field of expertise." Id. 
When determining final eligibility, USCIS should consider the petition in its entirety, weighing all 
evidence in the totality. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Agency should 
consider any potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, even ifit does not fit one ofthe regulatory criteria 
or does not serve as comparable evidence. Id. A petition's approval or denial should stern from the 
evidence's type and quality. Id. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director misanalysed evidence of his extraordinary ability. He notes 
that USCIS policy requires a final merits determination to consider "the petition in its entirety" and 
"any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even if such evidence does not fit one of the ... 
regulatory [evidentiary] criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence." 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Petitioner argues that, contrary to this policy, the Director considered only 
evidence supporting the three evidentiary criteria the Petitioner met. 
The record shows that the decision discussed only the evidence supporting the satisfied three 
evidentiary criteria. But the decision indicates the Director's consideration of all evidence of record. 
The final merits decision states that "USCIS must now examine the evidence presented in its entirety" 
and concludes that "[t]he record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish 
[the Petitioner's] eligibility for the benefit sought." (emphasis added). The Director's decision need 
not address every piece of evidence. See Oja v. Garland, 25 F .4th 152, l 71 (2d Cir. 2022) ( an agency 
need not "expressly parse or refute on record each individual argument or piece of evidence"); 2 see 
also Matter ofSanchez-Lopez, 26 I&N Dec. 71, 77 (BIA 2012), vacated on other grounds, 27 I&N 
Dec. 256 (BIA 2018) (in the context of removal proceedings, stating that an Immigration Judge need 
not discuss every piece of evidence). 
Also, a U.S. court of appeals has upheld a final merits determination where USCIS "looked at each 
of the criteria [a petitioner] satisfied and explained why [their] accomplishments under each 
merited little weight in the overall assessment." Amin, 24 F.4th at 394. The record therefore does 
not support the Petitioner's contention that the Director misanalysed evidence of his extraordinary 
ability. 
The Petitioner also contends that the Director disregarded evidence that establishes his extraordinary 
ability in his field. He points to a letter from a historian who served on a commission that 
recommended the Petitioner's receipt of Georgia's medal of honor. As the Petitioner notes, the letter 
2 Because the U.S. Court ofAppeals for the Second Circuit has jurisdiction over the Petitioner's residence, we must follow 
its precedent decisions in proceedings involving similar issues. 
3 
describes him as one of only three artists to receive the award and as "the Claude Monet of Georgia" 
and "a founding father of modem Georgia impressionism." 
The historian's letter evidences the Petitioner's influence on Georgian painting. But the letter does 
not demonstrate his place at the top of his field as a whole. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) ( defining the 
term "extraordinary ability"). The letter does not discuss other artists in the field or the Petitioner's 
relation to them. 
The Petitioner further contends that, when discussing proof of his participation as a judge of others' 
work in the field, the Director considered his judging activities at only one 2020 art competition, 
disregarding his judging at a 2019 competition. The record, however, does not support the Petitioner's 
contention. The Director's decision mentioned the Petitioner's participation as a judge at both the 
2020 and 2019 competitions. See Decision, p. 10 of 12 ("You provided evidence that demonstrates 
you participated as a judge of the 2020 
International Prize and 2019 International _________ 
The Petitioner also argues that the Director erred by finding display of his work at artistic exhibitions 
and showcases "sporadically." The Director's decision acknowledges displays of the Petitioner's 
work inl 2015, ____ of 2018, 12019, 2021 andl 2023. 
The Petitioner states that he had three exhibitions in both 2018 and 2019, and two in 2023. He points 
to a copy of a 2023 article about him that details his more recent exhibitions. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the record does not support the Director's finding of his works' 
"sporadic" display. But we agree with the Director's conclusion that the record does not demonstrate 
"that [his] displayed work record distinguish[ es] [him] as one of that small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field." We also agree that he "did not show how the number of [his] displayed 
works at artistic exhibitions or showcases compared with those of others at the very top of the field." 
The Director's mischaracterization ofthe display ofthe Petitioner's work was therefore harmless error. 
See Li Hua Lin v. US. Dep 't ofJustice, 453 F.3d 99, 107 (2d Cir. 2006) (stating that an error does not 
require a remand if the appellate adjudicator is "confident that the agency would reach the same result 
upon a reconsideration cleansed of errors"); see generally Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 350 
n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing cases regarding harmless or scrivener's errors). 
The Petitioner also cites articles about awards he won in 2012, 2014, and 2018 and an "academician" 
comparing him to Niko Pirosmani, a Georgian painter who rose to prominence after his death in 1918. 
The Petitioner states: "Without properly considering all of th[is] evidence, [USCIS] committed an 
error to conclude that the Petitioner has not maintained his national or international acclaim." 
But, considering the specified articles and all the evidence of record in the aggregate, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his place among the small percentage at his field's very top. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) (defining the term "extraordinary ability"). The record lacks sufficient information 
about other artists in the Petitioner's field and his place in the field relative to them. 
The Petitioner is an acclaimed and recognized painter in the modernistic impressionist style. For the 
foregoing reasons, however, he has not demonstrated his place among the small percentage at the 
field's very top. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 386 ("[G]iven the lofty bar for extraordinary ability 
4 
classifications, we cannot say that the agency acted arbitrarily when it determined that [a petitioner] 
was not 'extraordinary' but merely very good.") 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence ofrecord, in the aggregate, does not demonstrate the Petitioner's place among the small 
percentage at his field's very top. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 21, 2024 In Re: 31674146 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the 
ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by providing 
sufficient evidence of her authorship of scholarly articles in the field in a professional or trade 
publication or major media and display of her work. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (vii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets five other criteria, including the receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). She asserts that the Director erred in determining that she did 
not meet the plain language of these five criteria. 
As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality ofthe evidence in the context ofa final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ofEvidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.2 
Regarding some of the awards the Petitioner received as a student, the Director determined that these 
were limited to other students and counted them out ofthe running as sufficient evidence. The USCIS 
Policy Manual recognizes it is possible for some scholastic awards to qualify under the awards 
criterion provided they are not limited to persons within a single locality, employer, or school but "an 
award open to members of a well-known national institution (including an RI or R2 doctoral 
university) or professional organization may be nationally recognized." See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The relevant factor is whether the filing 
party shows the award is recognized in the field at a national or an international level. Id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner documented her receipt of various awards and submitted supporting 
documentation for the awards. While some of the awards are not eligible as they do not meet the 
plain language ofthis criterion, the Petitioner did provide sufficient evidence that she was the recipient 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. The Ministry of Education in the Russian Federation awarded the Petitioner the Russian 
National Award, in 2020 and 2021. The Petitioner submitted 
regulations outlining the selection process for this award. In addition, the Petitioner provided evidence 
that established that her school-based award is a nationally recognized award for excellence in her 
field. 
For the foregoing reasons, we agree with the Petitioner that, more likely than not, she meets the plain 
language requirements for this criterion and the Director erred in concluding otherwise. We withdraw 
this aspect of the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and entry of a new 
decision. Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (vi), and (vii), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of the 
evidence of record. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for the handful of individuals at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated 
by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 
see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence, evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 22, 2024 In Re: 34580128 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish: 1) his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, 2) he seeks to enter the United States 
to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, and 3) his entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is 
now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that our decision determining that the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
his intent to continue to work in his claimed area ofexpertise as a postsecondary teacher "was incorrect 
and also incomplete." At the outset, the majority of the evidence submitted in support of the motion 
to reopen relates to events occurring after the filing of the initial petition in January 2013. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Because the evidence does not establish his intent to work as a postsecondary teacher at the time he 
filed his petition, we need not further address it. 
The Petitioner also argues that his doctor of juridical science degree (SJD) "is designed for lawyers 
who aspire to pursue a career in legal academics rather than practicing law." Although the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from collegeconsensus.com regarding an SJD, the Petitioner did not show that 
simply possessing such a degree establishes his intent to work in the United States as a postsecondary 
teacher. As indicated in our decision, the Petitioner did not include any letters from prospective 
employers, evidence of prearranged commitments or contracts, or a statement detailing his plans on 
how he intends to continue his work in the United States as a postsecondary teacher. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5). In fact, as previously discussed in the decision, the Petitioner filed prior petitions 
claiming his intent work as a self-employed lawyer in international trade law and form his own legal 
practice without any mention of being a postsecondary teacher. 
The Petitioner further claims that his "experience working as a part-time research assistant ( on U.S. 
F-1 visa status) for Professor [S-F-] during the doctoral study, clearly demonstrates the petitioner's 
intent to continue to work in law teaching/postsecondary law teacher." The Petitioner submitted two 
letters confirming the Petitioner met the requirements for the SJD program and completed his 
dissertation. However, neither letter makes any indication of the Petitioner working as a part-time 
research assistant, nor did the Petitioner show how working as a part-time research assistant indicates 
experience as a postsecondary teacher, as well as intent to work as a postsecondary teacher in the 
United States. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that his evidence overcomes the underlying grounds in 
our previous decision, and therefore, we will dismiss his motion to reopen. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The Petitioner asserts that he "indeed had both direct and relevant experience as a postsecondary law 
teacher (postsecondary legal education), even including a rare S.J.D. degree aiming at preparing a 
lawyers for a career in legal academics." Notwithstanding the Petitioner's continuous claims and 
references to the submission of post-filing events, the Petitioner also argues that "there also exists a 
nexus between practicing and teaching/researching law, and thus the petitioner's competitive 
accomplishments as a lawyer are not completely irrelevant either and should be given consideration 
as well." We thoroughly addressed this issue in our prior decision, and the Petitioner has not shown 
how we erred as a matter of law or policy. We acknowledged the possibility of an individual's 
extraordinary claim in more than one field, such as teaching postsecondary students and practicing 
law. However, a petitioner must demonstrate "by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United 
States to continue work in the area ofexpertise." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). In this case, the Petitioner 
claimed his area of expertise as a postsecondary teacher without the record containing any evidence 
relating to his accomplishments, achievements, history, or experience as a teacher, let alone as a 
postsecondary teacher. Even if we considered his law evidence under the regulatory criteria, the 
Petitioner did not show how he intended to teach in postsecondary education in the United States at 
the time he filed his petition. Again, the Petitioner did not include any letters from prospective 
employers, evidence of prearranged commitments or contracts, or a statement detailing his plans on 
how he intends to continue his work in the United States as a postsecondary teacher. 
2 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how any of the documentation involved continuing to work as 
a postsecondary teacher in the United States. None of the Petitioner's prior filings made any mention 
of the Petitioner's past experience in postsecondary teaching. In fact, although he filed multiple 
motions regarding his first extraordinary petition and while this petition was pending, none of his 
motions made any mention of him teaching postsecondary students or otherwise involved 
postsecondary teaching. The Petitioner did not establish how he intended to continue to work in his 
area of postsecondary teaching when he has never worked in his purported area of expertise, nor did 
he show any interest from any higher education institutions willing to hire him at the time he filed his 
petition. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate his motion satisfies requirements for a motion to reconsider 
under 8 C.F.R. 103.5(a)(3), we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23173109 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as a noncitizen of "extraordinary ability." This first­
preference, employment-based category contains immigrant visas for noncitizens who demonstrate 
extraordinary ability "in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics." Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the self-petition . The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that practicing law falls under one of the statutory fields. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that her legal expertise relates to "business." 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance 
of evidence . Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with 
the following analysis. 
I. NONCITIZENS OF EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY 
Self-petitioners in this visa category must demonstrate their extraordinary ability by "sustained national 
or international acclaim" and "extensive documentation" of recognized achievements in their relevant 
fields of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. Petitioners must also seek to enter the country 
to work in their fields, and their entries must "substantially benefit prospectively the United States." 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(ii), (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those noncitizens in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Petitioners can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements through receipts of major, internationally recognized 
awards. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). Otherwise, they must meet at least three of ten regulatory criteria. See 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Petitioners may submit comparable evidence if they demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) do not readily apply to their occupations. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) . 
If petitioners meet these preliminary requirements, we then consider the totality of their materials in a 
final merits determination, assessing whether the records show sustained national or international 
acclaim and identify the petitioners as among the small percentage at the very top of their fields. See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part analysis to 
determine extraordinary ability). 
II. THE REQUIRED FIELDS 
On the Form I-140, the Petitioner identified her proposed job title as "International Legal Counsel." 
She stated that she would provide legal opinions to the international operations department of an online I company. 
The Director found that "[t]he petitioner has not established that the practice oflaw falls within the 
purview of 'the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics."' See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act. The Director noted that, for immigration purposes, the term "profession" includes "lawyers," 
see section 101(a)(32) of the Act, and that Congress expressly created immigrant visas for 
"professionals" in other categories. See sections 203(b )(2)(A), (3)(A)(ii) of the Act. If Congress 
includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another of the same Act, 
adjudicators presume that Congress intentionally excluded the language from the other section. INS 
v. Cardozo-Fonseca, 480 U.S. 421,433 (1987) (citation omitted). As section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of Act 
does not expressly include professionals, the Director found that Congress did not intend them to 
qualify as noncitizens of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner's occupation as a lawyer, however, does not automatically bar her classification as a 
noncitizen of extraordinary ability. Lawyers qualify for the requested category if their proposed work 
involves one of the designated statutory fields. Immigration and Naturalization Serv. Gen. Counsel 
Op. No. 95-3, 1995 WL 1796310 (Jan. 20, 1995). 
The record indicates the Petitioner's proposed employment in a business-related role. In a letter 
supporting the petition, she states the filing's basis as "her extraordinary business and academic 
achievements in intellectual property protection, especially in the field of e-commerce." Also, the 
authors of most of the supporting letters in the petition are managers of online I businesses, and 
published articles about the Petitioner focus on her work for online businesses. Thus, consistent with 
section 203(b )( 1 )(A )(i) of the Act, a preponderance of evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's proposed 
employment in the field of business. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision. 
The Director did not determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the preliminary, regulatory criteria for 
the requested immigrant visa category. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will therefore remand 
the matter. If the Director finds the Petitioner eligible under the regulatory requirements, the Director 
should consider whether the evidence demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim and 
places the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. 
2 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22727494 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an actor, comedian, and artist in Colombia. He intends to 
continue working in the United States in the field of performing arts. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to published materials in 
professional publications or major media, judging the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization, and artistic display. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv) and (vii). We will not disturb 
the Director's determinations with respect to these criteria. 1 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria related to membership 
in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, and original contributions of major significance 
in his field, high salary, and commercial success. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (ix) and (x). 
2 
In this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very 
high standard. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misapplied the Kazarian analysis 
and discounted extensive evidence submitted pertaining to his sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner first asserts that the Director erred in conducting a multi-part analysis and final merits 
determination, and claims that the Director misapplied the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian 
by applying additional ultra vires evidentiary requirements. Specifically, the Petitioner maintains that 
because he has satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
should qualify for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Petitioner is mistaken 
in his reading of Kazarian, which does in fact set forth the multi-part analysis referenced above, in 
which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first meets the initial evidence requirements of 
a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Kazarian decision does not state that meeting three of these criteria 
establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, Kazarian discusses a two-part review where the 
evidence is first counted and then, if fulfilling the initial evidence requirements, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination to determine whether a given petitioner is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor consistent with the statute and 
regulations for this restrictive classification. The Petitioner, therefore, has not established that the 
Director misapplied Kazarian or erred in proceeding to a final merits determination. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not properly consider all of the evidence submitted and 
improperly disregarded pieces ofrelevant documentary evidence. Upon de novo review, we agree with 
the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety 
and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence relating to seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final 
merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director 
determined the Petitioner had satisfied, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. The 
Director's final merits analysis failed to consider the totality of the material provided in support of the 
petition. The record includes multiple expert opinion letters from actors, producers, and directors as 
well as performing arts professionals in Colombia that address the Petitioner's standing in the field 
and his original theatrical contributions, as well as evidence related to his professional memberships, 
accolades received, commercial success, and high remuneration. Because the Director did not 
consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. 2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that during a final merits 
determination, USCTS officers should evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the 
immigrant classification). 
3 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2024 In Re: 33769918 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer software business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a senior director of 
professional services, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
satisfy at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Beneficiary fulfilled only two -judging 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's qualification for four further criteria. Issues and 
prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 
336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary meets at least three categories of 
evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on: (I) his membership on the 
Advisory Board for the Customer Experience Certificate Program atl I 
I I Division of Continuing Education; and (2) his membership on the Advisory Board for the 
Digital Marketing Executive Education Program at the I I 
I I users determines if the association for which the person claims 
membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by 
recognized experts in that field. 1 The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. 2 
The record contains membership invitation letters from ________ dated, respectively, 
2021 and 2022, which indicate the Beneficiary's acceptance by initialing and signing. The letters use 
identical language to state that "[ m ]embership on the board is by invitation only and is based upon 
[the Beneficiary's] personal and professional accomplishments." In addition, the letters provide that 
"[t]he board is comprised of a diverse, innovative, and extremely well-connected network of top 
executives."3 
Further, as it relates toc=J Customer Experience Certificate Program Advisory Board, the Petitioner 
provided screenshots from the organization's website that indicate that"[ e ]xecutives around the nation 
are hand-picked for the board to provide students an exclusive group of individuals with diverse 
industry backgrounds to offer different points of view and distinctive leadership qualities, making up 
a team of accomplished experts who offer innovative advice and dynamic perspectives in their area of 
focus." However, based on the above limited descriptions ofthe membership criteria ofthese advisory 
boards, they do not appear to involve additional requirements or substantive review by national or 
international experts to determine whether a given applicant has demonstrated outstanding 
achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that membership on the above advisory boards "are only open via 
express invitation from experts and professors within these top tier universities," but this statement 
was not supported by the information provided in the record. Counsel's unsubstantiated assertions 
do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in 
a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary 
weight"). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence. The 
record does not establish that the Beneficiary's membership on the Customer Experience 
Certificate Program Advisory Board or the I I Digital Marketing Executive Education 
Program Advisory Board satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on an interview of the Beneficiary on The 
Agile Brand Podcast with Greg Kihlstrom. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate published material about the Beneficiary in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.4 In evaluating whether a 
submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant 
2 Id. 
3 Further, the letters indicate that members must attend at three board meetings per year, provide feedback on the program's 
effectiveness, and register oneself or a colleague for the class with a provided discount, and may participate as a speaker, 
mentor, or panelist. 
4 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 
factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative 
circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
Re ardin the interview, the Petitioner rovided a transcri t of the odcast interview titled, 
posted on the website 
Gregkihlstrom.com. The Petitioner, however, did not include the regulatorily required date and author 
of the material. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate, as claimed, that The Agile Brand 
Podcast enjoys standing as a major trade publication or other major medium, nor did the Petitioner 
offer evidence relating to Gregkihlstrom.com. At initial filing, in response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE), and on appeal, the Petitioner referenced information contained in a screenshot it 
initially submitted from the Gregkihlstrom.com website that the podcast is "[t]he leading marketing 
technology podcast" and has more than 2 million downloads, and a letter from Mr. Kihlstrom asserting 
the podcast "has garnered more than 1.5 million downloads." 
Although the Petitioner asserts on appeal that "this podcast qualifies as a major trade publication or 
some other form of major media," it has not provided independent and objective evidence to support 
its claim of major audio coverage. As stated, counsel's unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute 
evidence. Nor will we rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, 
No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that 
self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence 
of a major medium). Even if we were to accept Mr. Kihlstrom's information, the Petitioner did not 
provide further evidence or information demonstrating the significance or relevance of the provided 
download figures to establish that the interview venue represents "a major trade publication or some 
other form of major media." Therefore, we need not address the Petitioner's arguments relating to 
whether the evidence qualifies as published material about the Beneficiary relating to his work in the 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in 
the field of strategic management of Customer Experience Management (CEM) and Employee 
Experience Management (EEM) technology development and engagement, in his role within the 
petitioning company. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines 
whether the person has made original contributions in the field. 5 USCIS then determines whether the 
original contributions are of major significance to the field. 6 Examples of relevant evidence include, 
but are not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; 
testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's 
original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses 
deriving from the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 7 The Director 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
4 
found that the documentation submitted does not show that the significance of the Beneficiary's 
contributions rise to a level of major significance in the field of CEM and EEM technology 
development and engagement. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts it has demonstrated that the Beneficiary's work developing and 
managing its program and partnership ecosystem has led to decreased 
deployment costs and increased customer engagement and company revenue. The Petitioner contends 
these contributions were critical to the Petitioner's 2019 IPO, its 2021 acquisition by I I 
I I and its 2022 acquisition of I In addition, it argues that the submitted letters 
show that the Beneficiary's contributions have "influence beyond his employers, clients or 
customers," because his work for major corporate clients such as ____________ 
______ has resulted in the expansion of the Petitioner's technologies and offerings to 
these corporations' own customer/clients. 
The evidence referenced by the Petitioner, such as recommendation letters,8 indicates the 
Beneficiary's involvement in the Petitioner's projects with major corporate clients. However, the 
evidence does not show that such involvement rises to a level of major significance in the field. The 
significance ofthe Beneficiary's contributions has been limited to the projects in which the petitioning 
company conducted business rather than impacting or influencing the overall field in a major way. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
For instance, the Petitioner provided letters from several of its own clients. P-S-, a vice president at 
the management consulting company states that his work with the Beneficiary's team converting 
I Iproprietary solution into an application on the 
Petitioner's app development platform had "a substantial impact on multiple clients," including an 
American manufacturer of secure identity products and a German telecommunications company. 
N-M-, a vice president at the chemical company I I provides that the Beneficiary played "a pivotal 
role in the successful implementation of [the Petitioner's] Customer Experience Management 
software" forl Iin collaboration with He asserts that the Beneficiary's contributions to this 
project resulted in an 18.5% increase inl I (a measure of customer loyalty and 
satisfaction), made "a measurable impact on I Iglobal business," and "significantly influenced 
how [ the Petitioner's and related technologies are perceived and utilized by ... our customers, 
clients, and competitors." Although the authors of the letters highly praise the projects in which they 
worked with the Beneficiary, they do not further elaborate and explain how those engagements 
translated into contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, while letters from representatives of the petitioning organization highly praise the 
Beneficiary's work in his position as a strategic management executive and on behalf of various 
customers, they do not explain how his contributions have been majorly significant in the field. 
Further, some of the letters make broad claims regarding his work. For instance, N-B-, the 
Beneficiary's direct manager, credits him with the development of the Petitioner's ______ 
8 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one in the record. 
5 
9 development of its Partner Relationship Management system that saved it "hundreds 
ofthousands ofdollars in 3rd party software cost;" deployment of IApp and 
__________ powered by the Petitioner's app and proprietary app development 
platform which "are critical towards enabling our wide partner ecosystem to leverage the entire spread 
of [the Petitioner's] advanced technologies; and contribution to the Petitioner's acquisition of I I a Mexican customer experience consulting firm, for implementation of the Petitioner's 
He asserts that the Beneficia 's work 
"was very critical to [the Petitioner's] recent acquisition by 2021." 
J-D-, the Petitioner's executive vice president and chief customer officer, provides that initiatives the 
Beneficiary developed for optimizing revenues and regional profitability for the Petitioner's East 
Coast Professional Services division were later used to drive similar improvements in profitability for 
the Petitioner's Professional Services as a whole, which were critical to the company's continued 
growth before and after its 2019 IPO. Further, he claims that"[o ]ver 1000 companies from across the 
globe now subscribe to and utilize [the Petitioner's] SaaS products and services he has supported here" 
and that "[the Petitioner] and third party businesses built on and around [the Petitioner's] platform 
now employ several thousand employees, further illustrating [the Beneficiary's] leading positive 
impact on his fields and the SaaS sector as a whole." T-K-, the Petitioner's former general manager 
and vice president of the East Coast business, states that "the Beneficiary's original contributions in 
driving up the margins on the business through development of new enterprise-wide initiatives and 
best practices, working on multi-market accounts, and leveraging our Partner ecosystem through 
custom designed CEM Saas solutions and applications of[the Petitioner's] platform all have made a 
major significant positive impact on the field of [CEM] and [EEM] technologies as a whole." 
As evidenced above, the letters reflect how much the petitioning employer values the Beneficiary's 
contributions to its company. However, the letters do not explain what the Beneficiary has contributed 
in the field and how those contributions are considered to be of major significance in the field. In 
addition, the letters make general claims and point to the Beneficiary's impact on the individual 
companies rather than on the overall field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. Moreover, the 
letters do not articulate how the Beneficiary's performance in his roles at the petitioning company 
somehow influenced or affected the field in a significantly major manner. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance. 10 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 11 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Beneficiary has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
9 In addition, although N-B-claimsthe Petitioner's I I is "a product offering that has billions of dollars' worth 
of addressable market potential," the fact that the program may impact the field at some point in the future does not 
demonstrate that the current impact of the Beneficiary's work rises to a level of"major significance" as required. 
10 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
11 Id. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary qualifies for this criterion based on the pay he received with 
the petitioning company in 2021 and 2022. The Director found insufficient evidence to establish that 
the Beneficiary earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration. USCIS determines 
whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working 
in the field. 12 According to Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner indicated 
the Beneficiary's proposed job title as "Senior Director, Professional Services," and his annual salary 
as $219,300. 13 In the initial cover letter, the Petitioner indicated it promoted the Beneficiary to his 
current position in November 2021 and that he also receives "generous stock and performance bonus 
incentives." 14 The record reflects that the Beneficiary received total compensation of $695,372 in 
2021 and $382,135 in 2022. 
The Petitioner argues it satisfies this criterion based upon submitted data from Glassdoor.com and 
Indeed.com that indicates that the range of base salaries for senior directors (all industries) in the 
Beneficiary's geographic area I I California) with 7 to 9 years of experience is $152,000 
to $215,000; the material from Indeed.com shows the high base salary for a senior director in the 
geographic area is $300,991. The wage information provided by Glassdoor and Indeed does not 
provide a description of the "senior director" occupation and specifies that "all industries" were 
included in the survey. Broad descriptions that include multiple occupations or multiple industries 
may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. See generally, 6 USCJS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 15 The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the salary for "senior director (all 
industries)" is an appropriate basis for comparison. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that it meets this criterion based on salary data it provided for 
computer and information system managers. Data from the Department of Labor's Foreign Labor 
Certification (FLC) Data Center indicates that computer and information system managers in the 
Beneficiary's geographic area earn a Level 4 Wage (fully competent) of $250,286. Occupational 
Employment and Wage Statistics for computer and information systems managers from the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics (BLS) shows a 90th percentile wage of$239,200 for the United States. Further, within 
its RFE response, the Petitioner provided information from Glassdoor.com and Indeed.com showing 
base salaries for computer and information system managers in the Beneficiary's geographic area. 
12 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
13 The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary on an HIB (specialty occupation) visa since December 2014. 
14 The Petitioner's initial letter described the Beneficiary's job duties as including: build, optimize and enhance software 
solutions; manage teams of technical analysts working with enterprise grade database management systems; lead a 
complex software implementation program; lead design discussions with clients for Enterprise grade technology 
deployments; direct management and leadership ofa Professional Services team to include recruiting, hiring, development, 
performance management and retention; collaborate with Marketing to understand client success stories, with the Product 
team to shape the platform road map, and with the Insights team to develop CEM best practices; and perform financial 
management and rep011ing, including profit and loss reporting. 
15 Further, the screenshots in the record from Glassdoor.com do not state how many users reported their salaries to make 
its findings, which limits the data's evidentiary value. 
7 
The information from Glassdoor.corn indicates that the range of base salaries for computer and 
information system managers (all industries) with 7 to 9 years of experience is $85,000 to $152,000; 
the material from Indeed.corn shows the range of base salaries for computer and information system 
managers is $58,811 to $182,597. 16 
While the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's total compensation is considerably higher that the 
base salary figures reported by the BLS, FLC, Glassdoor, and Indeed resources, we note that the 
Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence that would allow a comparison between the 
Beneficiary's total remuneration and that of other similarly employed workers in his geographic area. 
Therefore, the evidence does not establish that he receives total remuneration that is "significantly 
high." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted the average household income of residents in the 
California area; however, this regulatory criterion requires that an individual commands a high salary 
in relation to others in the field rather than comparing the wages to the overall workers in the 
geographic area. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary 
has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others based on 
his earnings with the Petitioner. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation showing that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. 17 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
16 The information from Indeed shows that only nine salaries were reported for this survey. This relatively small sample 
size limits the data's evidentiary value. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(1) (stating that some 
websites that rely on user-reported salary data may not provide a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported 
their salaries, which may impact the reliability of the data). 
17 See INS v. Bagamashad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is othe1wise ineligible). 
8 
l9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Beneficiary among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2024 In Re: 33515886 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology project manager in the field of human-computer interactive 
digital technologies, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
(EB-1) classification makes immigrant visas available to individuals who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirements for the EB-1 classification , the record did not 
establish sustained national or international acclaim and that she is among the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to individuals with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
10 categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Additionally, if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence 
to establish the beneficiary's eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed the instant petition in October 2023. She has worked as a principal product 
manager atl Iwith an annual salary of $200,000 since November 2023. She received a 
bachelor's degree in computer engineering froml in 2008 and a master's degree 
in human-computer interaction 1 from I I in 2011. She claims that she has 
20 years ofexperience and education in computer and information systems and has focused on human­
capital interaction for legal and healthcare digital technology services for the past 12 years. She 
intends to continue to work in the United States as an information technology project manager with 
companies that offer services to professionals and consumers. 
The Petitioner has not claimed that she has received a major, internationally recognized award. 
Therefore, she must satisfy at least three of the 10 regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner meets three ofthe 10 criteria: scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and a high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the criteria for published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record supports the Director's determination. Because the Petitioner satisfies 
at least three of the 10 criteria, we decline to address whether she meets two additional criteria.2 
1 The Petitioner explains that human-capital interaction is the research, design, and management of the use of computer 
technology, which focuses on the interfaces between people and computers. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
2 
However, we will consider the evidence submitted as part of the final merits determination. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish the Petitioner warranted 
favorable consideration in a final merits determination based on the totality of the evidence. On 
appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not properly consider the evidence submitted, 
failed to understand a few facts, and employed a standard that was much stricter than the 
preponderance of the evidence standard. 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence sustained national or international acclaim, that she 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we 
analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2 ( stating that the officer should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in 
its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the 
required high level ofexpertise ofthe immigrant classification). Here, we determine that the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated her eligibility. 
The Petitioner and two other individuals published two papers in the Association for Computer 
Machinery (ACM) Journals in 2012 based on their research on musculoskeletal disorders and 
physiotherapy. The Petitioner and two other individuals filed a patent application in 2016 based on 
their invention of a semi-automated form-based chat, and this patent application was published in the 
U.S. Patent Application Publication in 2018. She claimed that her papers were downloaded over 800 
times and cited 43 times recognizing her research in the field of healthcare, particularly in the area of 
physical therapy digital technologies, and that this earned her a keynote speech at the I I _______________ in Denmark and at the ____ in Texas in 2012 . 
Relating to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in a final merits determination, an 
evaluation of the citations of others to a petitioner's published work can be relevant to the final merits 
determination of whether a petitioner is at the very top of their field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 
F. 3d at 1121-22.3 The Petitioner provided a printout from the Google Scholar website showing that 
these two papers and patent application have been cited 47 times since 2018. However, she did not 
provide evidence differentiating her publication rate from those of others in her field or otherwise 
establishing that it is reflective of one who is among the small percentage of the very top of her field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not sufficiently explained how her publication record, which includes 
three documents over a 12-year timeframe and with her most recent work being published in 2018, 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (noting that a petitioner may provide evidence that the beneficiary's 
total rate of citation to their body of published work is high relative to others in the field, such as the person has a high h­
index for the field. Depending on the field and comparative data, such evidence may indicate a person's overall standing 
for the purpose of demonstrating that the person is among the small percentage at the top of the field and enjoys sustained 
national or international acclaim). 
3 
demonstrates having "a career of acclaimed work in the field" and sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act provide that 
the intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for individuals of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that her authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of her 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not sufficiently establish the significance of the 
Petitioner's authorships or how her publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very 
top of the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's performance of a leading or critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation, the Petitioner has not shown that her leading or critical roles in three 
organizations have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. For example,! 
the product management executive and the Petitioner's former manager at 
states that the Petitioner played a critical role in successfully launching the company's free and 
attorney-assisted LLC formation services in 10 states within six months and that the Petitioner earned 
a spot bonus award in 2022 for her leadership and commitment. I Ia 
co-founder, the manager, and a biosignals expert at I Istates that 
during her internship at the company, the Petitioner demonstrated outstanding skills and creativity by 
conceptualizing an Android app aimed at extending the I I clinical product to the mobile 
domain to support improved diagnosis and enhance the recovery rate of physiotherapy patients. I I a former vice president of product atl Istates that the Petitioner performed a 
critical role within the company where she managed product and user experience teams across several 
business units of I Iand oversaw a portfolio of 20 products and services to serve the 
information and service needs of legal and healthcare customers and professionals with a human­
centered approach. 
While these are notable accomplishments, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate how these 
successes have resulted in national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The authors 
of the recommendation letters describe the Petitioner's past projects and explain her contributions to 
her former employers, but they do not discuss recognition the Petitioner has received from the field 
for her work. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. The Petitioner has not shown how her roles within 
the companies resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, that she drew significant attention from 
the greater field, or that the overall field considers her to be at the very top garnering with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner has demonstrated that she earned a high salary for services in relation to others in the 
field. While this may indicate some degree of recognition of her achievements in the field, she did 
not submit sufficient evidence showing that her earnings are at a level reflecting that she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's 
high salary may be sufficient to meet the regulatory criterion, but the record lacks evidence showing 
that she has received acclaim or recognition from her compensation. Moreover, the comparative 
evidence ofcompensation in the record does not sufficiently establish how her compensation compares 
to the upper echelon of the field such that it would indicate that she is among the small percentage at 
the very top of her field. 
4 
With respect to published material in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
the Petitioner offered two articles about her relating to her work in legal and healthcare technologies 
published in TechTimes.com and Outlookindia .com. The Petitioner submitted background 
information from the publications' or organizations' websites or domain summary on these websites 
from other websites rather than impartial documentary evidence demonstrating that the websites are 
major media. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 
604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the 
magazine's status is not reliant evidence of major media). In addition, the Petitioner presented three 
additional articles posted on the Internet where she is one of the speakers at a webinar on A/B testing 
best practices and quoted on the launch ofLawyers.com's Legal Costs & Outcomes Hub, a free online 
resource for legal consumers. These articles are not about the Petitioner relating to her work in the 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated how these non-qualifying articles indicate sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(a) of 
the Act. Even considering these articles, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the 
publication of two media articles about her relating to her work in the field reflects a level of press 
coverage that represents recognition consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . 
Regarding original scientific contributions of major significance in the field, in addition to the 
published material and scholarly articles we have discussed above, the Petitioner references letters 
from his former colleagues and other experts in the field. For example,! I a professor of 
computer science and information systems at I I asserts that the Petitioner's 
patent for a semi-automated form-based chat has had a significant impact on legal and healthcare 
technologies. I I a co-founder ofl Istates that the Petitioner and her team 
at I were the first to launch a free LLC formation service, leading the way for other services 
to also offer low-cost and no-cost options, democratizing the LLC formation service industry. 
Many petitions to classify a person with extraordinary ability contain letters of support. Letters of 
support, while not without weight, should not form the cornerstone of a successful claim for this 
classification. Rather, the statements made by the witnesses should be corroborated by documentary 
evidence in the record. The letters should explain in specific terms why the witnesses believe the 
beneficiary to be of the caliber of a person with extraordinary ability. Letters that merely reiterate 
USCIS' definitions relating to this classification or make general and expansive statements regarding 
the beneficiary and the beneficiary's accomplishments are generally not persuasive. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). Here, the letters from experts may support the Petitioner's 
professional recognition and leadership in the field of human-computer interaction for legal and 
healthcare digital technologies. Additionally, the letters from her fonner colleagues, which discuss 
the Petitioner's contributions in certain projects or to her former employers, may establishes that the 
Petitioner has made notable contributions to her employers . However, the record does not sufficiently 
demonstrate that she has received acclaim from the field for the work described in these letters. While 
we acknowledge her past achievements in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that she has received 
national or international acclaim for her work on various projects. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
5 
To determine whether a petitioner has established eligibility for a requested benefit by a preponderance 
of the evidence, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) must examine each piece of 
evidence, both individually and within the context of the entire record, for relevance, probative value, 
and credibility. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. While the Petitioner may disagree with the 
Director's conclusion, the record does not support the Petitioner's contention that the Director did not 
properly consider the evidence submitted, failed to understand a few facts, applied a higher standard 
than the preponderance ofthe evidence standard, or otherwise erred in denying the petition as a matter 
of law or policy. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, the 
record as a whole does not demonstrate a level of recognition that indicates the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The record does not 
sufficiently establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
While we may not have addressed each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed each one 
individually and considered the evidence within the context ofthe record. The record does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the EB-1 visa 
classification and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner is not eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22643264 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher in the field of I I biology, focusing specifically in the area 
biology. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
2 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria; specifically, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. As the 
Petitioner claims no other criterion, beyond those discussed herein, we consider the remaining 
eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to be waived. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has made major contributions in the field of microbiology,2 
noting that his research has "pushed researchers understanding" of the effects ofl I and 
on human health as well as the characteristics of various diseases and their 
effect on human health. The Petitioner contends that the publication of his research in reputable 
journals, along with his citation history and letters of recommendation, establishes that he meets this 
criterion. 3 
In his brief, the Petitioner claims that his publication in top journals demonstrates that experts in his 
field find his work to be majorly significant. Specifically, the Petitioner points to the publication of 
his articles in Journal of Nutrition, Acta Obstrecia et Gynecologica Scandinavica, Environmental 
Health Perspectives, Epigenetics, Journal of Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, 
Antioxidants and Redox Signaling, Emerging I11fectious Diseases, and Journal of I11fectious Diseases. 
However, the Petitioner has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular 
journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an original 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 We note that on appeal, the Petitioner refers to his field as In supp01t of the petition, however, the Petitioner 
claimed to be a researcher in the field of biology. The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
3 The Petitioner also opines that the Director erred in his decision by incorrectly requiring major contributions "to the field" 
rather than "in the field" because the regulations do not require a significant important contribution related to the entire 
field. However. we do not find support for the Petitioner's contention regarding the difference in meaning between these 
phrases and we note that USCIS policy advises adjudicators to determine "whether the person's original contributions are 
of major significance to the field." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. We therefore conclude that the 
Director did not err in his decision. 
3 
contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor 
reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or the impact of 
research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates 
a contribution of major significance. Here, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The Petitioner contends that his published articles had been cited 958 times at the time of filing. The 
Petitioner did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations represents contributions of 
major significance in the field. As this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field, he bears the burden to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance. Aggregate citation figures tend to reflect 
a petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying which research the field considers to 
be majorly significant. 
We note the Petitioner's reference to our non-precedent decision concerning a case where citations to 
works co-authored by a petitioner were deemed sufficient to demonstrate original contributions of major 
significance. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and 
may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner did not submit a copy of the referenced case, nor did it 
demonstrate that the facts of that case are analogous to the matter currently before us. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that his 
three highest cited articles received 160 (Emerging Infectious Diseases), 135 (Journal of lnfectious 
Diseases), and 64 (Environmental Health Perspectives) citations, respectively.4 Once again, this 
criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest 
in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the 
citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For 
example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations 
are indicative that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not 
establish that his citation numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions 
in the field. 5 
4 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
In addition to the Google Scholar citation evidence, the record contains evidence relating to the 
"impact factors" of the journals that published the Petitioner's papers. That a publication bears a high 
ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, 
demonstrate the influence of any particular author within the field or how an author's research has had 
an impact within the field. Although a journal's ranking and impact factor can provide an 
approximation of the prestige of the journal, the ranking does not demonstrate the major significance 
of every article published in that journal. The Petitioner must establish that the findings in his articles 
have affected the I I biology field at a level indicative of original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also argues that he submitted multiple articles that have been cited at a rate exceeding 
that at which papers published by otherl lbiology experts have been cited, and asserts that 
each article therefore constitutes an original scholarly contribution of major significance. In support 
of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted data about the rate of citation to his individual papers from 
several third-party sources. The first set of data the Petitioner refers to is the Altmetric Attention 
Score. The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the attention score assigned by Altmetric to eight 
of his papers, indicating that five of these papers were "in the top 25% of all research outputs scored 
by Altmetrics," and the remaining three papers received good or above average attention scores. On 
review of this evidence, it appears that these scores are calculated based on online attention derived 
from social media and mainstream news media. Altmetric's website states as follows: 
Altmetrics are metrics and qualitative data that are complementary to traditional, 
citation-based metrics. They can include (but are not limited to) peer reviews on 
Faculty of 1000, citations on Wikipedia and in public policy documents, discussions 
on research biogs, mainstream media coverage, bookmarks on reference managers like 
Mendeley, and mentions on social networks such as Twitter. 
Sourced from the Web, altmetrics can tell you a lot about how often journal articles 
and other scholarly outputs like datasets are discussed and used around the world. 6 
According to its website, excerpts of which are submitted by the Petitioner on appeal, the attention 
scores reflected in the Altmetric data provided by the Petitioner are garnered by mentions in various 
social media platforms such as news articles, biogs, Wikipedia, and Twitter. On appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that the Director erroneously discounted the Altmetric attention scores because they were 
derived in part from Wikipedia sources. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that 
Wikipedia is not the sole source used for score compilation, it nevertheless is highlighted as a 
significant source of data. As mentioned in the Director's decision, there are no assurances about the 
reliability of the content from Wikipedia, an open, user-edited internet site. 7 See Lamilem Badasa v. 
Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
6 See https://www.altmetric.com/about-altmetrics/what-are-altmetrics/ (last visited Oct. 25, 2022). 
7 Online content from Wikipedia is subject to the following general disclaimer, "WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE 
OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of 
individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows 
anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been 
reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable infonnation. That is not 
5 
We further note that Altmetric's website states that "[i]t is important to bear in mind that metrics 
(including citation-based metrics) are merely indicators-they can point to interesting spikes in different 
types of attention, etc. but are not themselves evidence of such."8 Moreover, "[t]here are a number of 
limitations to the use of altmetrics," "altmetrics are a complement to, not a replacement for, things like 
informed peer review and citation-based metrics," "[a]nyone with enough time on their hands can 
artificially inflate the altmetrics for their research," and "[u]ntil we know more, use and interpret 
altmetrics carefolly."9 While the Petitioner asserts that the Altmetric data demonstrates that his articles 
constitute original contributions of major significance, he does not explain or demonstrate that even 
very high attention in social media and mainstream news media is indicative of the subject research 
being of major significance to other scientists conducting! I biology research. 
The Petitioner also submitted statistical analyses from Dimensions, indicating that some of his articles 
have received "more attention than normal," and others are "extremely highly cited," earning between 
8.16 and 24 times more citations than average. These figures can be misleading, because the range of 
citations is broad; the most-cited articles can receive hundreds or thousands of citations, while others 
are cited once or not at all. Above average is not necessarily synonymous with the top of the field. 
Although this information provides some context for the citation figures submitted, the record still 
lacks independent, objective evidence to explain how the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance such that his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that he presented testimonials attesting to his majorly significant 
contributions. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their 
publications in journals, and point to the citations of his work by others. Although they reflect the 
novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance and how their im act on the field rises to the level of major significance 
required by this criterion.1° For instance, commented on the Petitioner's research 
conducted at the which focused on the prevalence of different 
I I infections, development of I methods for easy identification for identification of 
different! I species, and immunity tol According tol I the Petitioner's 
work in this area contributed to the limitation of parasitic infection in the United States, and he notes 
that the Petitioner developed a I characterization ofl I an anerobic 
parasite." HoweverJ I did not describe how the Petitioner has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarly, whilel !concluded that the Petitioner's work on this project "helped define 
the scope of the prevalence of this pathogen, so a firm plan of action for addressing it could be 
developed," he did not supplement his letter with specific examples showing how the Petitioner 
impacted the field in a significant way. 
to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However, 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article may recently 
have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in 
the relevant fields." (Emphasis in original). See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer (last visited 
Oct. 25, 2022). 
8 See https://www.altmetric.com/about-altmetrics/what-are-altmetrics/ (last visited Oct. 25, 2022). 
9 See id. 
10 While we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
commented on the Petitioner's work pertaining to the effects of _____ __ exposure and itsl I effects on humans, noting that the Petitioner found that humans 
exposed tol I may be more likely to develop cancer. Although she states that his findings had 
been published in Environmental Health Perspectives and that she cited his findings in one of her 
articles,! I does not explain why she cited to this research or how it affected her research.□ I I also focused on the prestige of the journals in which the Petitioner's work has been published, 
but she did not explain how his research constitutes an original contribution of major significance to 
other researchers in the field. 
Similarly, stated that she is familiar with the Petitioner's work in the field of 1 7 related toxicity and __ __.modification resulting from I exposure, and referenced 
the Petitioner's articles on these subjects that were published in the scientific journals Environmental 
Health Perspectives and Metallomics. However, she did not explain how the Petitioner's published 
findings affected her own research. In addition, in discussing the significance of these contributions, 
the letter refers to the prestige of the journals in which the Petitioner's work has been published. But 
we will not assume that all papers published in prestigious scientific journals have impact or influence 
on their respective fields, andl I does not explain how attention to the Petitioner's research 
in scientific journals reflects a significant contribution to the field of I biology. 
Furthermore, some of the letters speculate on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
propose that he will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. For example, I 
I I commented on the Petitioner's research on deficiency and supplementation during 
pregnancy. According to I I the Petitioner's finding that extended I I in I I women who participated in his study led to improved! I and immune function in 
infants, and showed the benefits of exclusively I and its potential to lower health care 
costs inl I and other developing countries. She did not, however, elaborate and explain if 
the research has ever been applied in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.12 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. 
The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
12 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work reflects the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 25, 2023 In Re: 28355068 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief executive in the field of small business development , seeks classification under 
the employment-based , fust-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they 
demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim and, through extensive documentation, 
recognition of their achievements in their fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that that the Petitioner met three of the ten eligibility criteria found at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient documentation to establish his 
eligibility under two ( ofthe ten) regulatory criteria; namely, evidence ofthe alien's participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization for which classification is sought; and evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly 
articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media. However, the 
Director determined that he did not meet any of the remaining eight criteria. The Petitioner provided 
evidence under the following criteria: the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields; the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field; the 
alien's performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation ; and the alien's command of a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provided a "covering letter," listing six points: 1. Benefits for the USA; 
2. Associations; 3. Refereeing; 4. Contribution to the field of activity; 5. Contribution to the company; 
and 6. Income. 1 The Petitioner's only argument, which relates to the high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), is as follows: 
"[ a ]fter receiving the RFE, in the income section, here the income is presented 
additionally (to the contract received in the case dated 09/21/2021), which significantly 
increases the average monthly salary reflected in the "Reference for calculating the 
payment of bonuses and remunerations" Also presented is an additional agreement to 
the contract and certificates of bonuses." 
Citing to Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582 (BIA 1988), the Director noted discrepancies in the record 
related to the Petitioner's monthly salary. In the documents he initially submitted, his salary is 230,000 
rubles, and in response to the RFE, it appears that his salary is 207,000 rubles. Moreover, the Director 
explained that the record lacked objective evidence to establish the Petitioner's high salary or 
remuneration relative to other chief executives. We agree. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's concerns regarding the lack of objectivity in 
the evidence or the discrepancy in his salary. As the Director pointed out in the RFE, the Rosstat 
information is related to development directors and the Petitioner has not shown that his position, and 
those of a development director, are comparable, such that the salary of a development director is a 
proper basis for comparison. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high 
salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the 
field. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 
420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser 
duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). Here, the comparative salary data is insufficient objective evidence for comparison to 
his salary and position. 
In addition, if the Petitioner wishes us to consider evidence of remuneration in the form of year-end 
and quarterly bonuses, he must also provide objective evidence of the year-end and quarterly bonuses 
offered others in his field in order for us to evaluate whether his remuneration is "significantly high" 
1 The evidence, in the form ofa personal statement dated January 20, 2023, provided to establish points 1-5 was previously 
submitted in response to the request for evidence (RFE). 
2 
in relation to others. Here, the Petitioner has not met his burden under the plain language of the 
regulation. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Because the Petitioner did not raise any other arguments or provide evidence related to the other 
eligibility criteria, we consider them waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 
(BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 25, 2024 In Re: 34050320 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a professor of forensic entomology, the study of insects on corpses to help solve 
crimes. He requests his classification under the employment-based, first-preference immigrant visa 
category as a noncitizen with "exceptional ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence 
in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively 
document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one initial evidentiary criterion -two less than needed for a final merits determination . 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence regarding: 
• The Petitioner's receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• His membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• Published materials about him and his work; 
• His original contributions of major significance in his field; 
• His authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• His performance in a leading or critical role for outstanding organizations. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (viii). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he met the evidentiary criterion regarding authorship of scholarly articles in 
his field. But, because he has not satisfied the requisite number of evidentiary requirements, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either standard, USCIS must then make a final 
merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (providing a two-step 
analysis to adjudicate extraordinary ability petitions) 2; see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Egyptian native and citizen, attended a university in his home 
country, earning a bachelor of science degree in zoology and master's and doctoral degrees in 
entomology. He has since worked as an assistant/associate professor at universities in Egypt, Saudi 
Arabia, Lebanon, and the United States. 
The Petitioner states that he introduced a molecular entomological approach using mitochondrial DNA 
sequence data to identify forensically important insects. Scientists then use the insects' developmental 
larval stages in carcasses to estimate times and causes of death, and changes in corpses' positions. 
The Petitioner has about 30 years' experience in the U.S., Lebanese, and Egyptian judicial systems as 
a forensic entomology expert. His most recent research includes applying "maggot therapy" to treat 
venous and diabetic ulcers. He states his intention to continue working in his field in the United States 
and claims "a flood ofjob offers" from U.S. universities. 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 Because the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has jurisdiction over the Petitioner's residence, we must 
generally follow the court's precedent decisions involving the same or similar issues. See Jama v. lmmigr. & Customs 
Enf't, 543 U.S. 335,350 n.10 (2005). 
2 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore meet at least three ofthe ten evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that he satisfied one evidentiary requirement by submitting 
proof of his performance as a judge of others' work in his field. See 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We 
will next review the additional evidentiary criteria he claims to have met. 3 
B. Lesser National or International A wards 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [ noncitizen ]'s receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 e.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
When adjudicating this requirement, users first determines whether a petitioner -as opposed, for 
example, to their employer -received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(8)(1). The Agency then determines whether an award garnered national or international 
recognition and rewarded excellence in the field of endeavor. Id. Relevant considerations include: 
criteria used to grant awards; the awards' national or international significance; the number of 
awardees; and limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner contends that he met this criterion by submitting evidence of his 1996 receipt of an 
Egyptian scholarship to continue his doctoral studies in the United States. He describes his scholarship 
as "one of the highest honors in my field" and states that he received it for his "exceptional skills and 
academic prowess in forensic entomology." He states that, like other awards or prizes, his scholarship 
represents a "professional milestone recognized and celebrated in academic circles." 
The Director found the evidence insufficient because it indicates that only doctoral students competed 
for the scholarship, excluding more experienced forensic entomologists. A letter from the general 
director ofthe Egyptian ministry that issued the scholarship confirms the limitation, stating: "Students 
[eligible for the grant] must have a strong academic record and be registered in a Ph.D. program at a 
university in Egypt. "4 
Under users policy, however, "there is no specific requirement that an award be open to all members 
of the field, including the most experienced." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's finding. We need not reverse the finding or remand the matter, however, as 
the Petitioner has not met this criterion for other reasons. See Massachusetts Trs. ofE. Gas & Fuel 
Assocs. v. United States, 377 U.S. 235, 248 (1964) (applying the harmless-error rule "when a mistake 
of the administrative body is one that clearly had no bearing on the procedure used or the substance 
3 We will not consider additional evidence that the Petitioner submits on appeal. The record shows that, before the 
petition's denial, he had a chance to submit the materials in response to the Director's request for additional evidence. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring the submission of all requested evidence together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice 
of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
4 The letter also states: "Applicants must have a well-prepared thesis proposal." 
3 
of the decision reached"); see generally Matter of O-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330, 350 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
( citing cases regarding harmless or scrivener's errors). 
First, the record lacks sufficient evidence that the Petitioner's scholarship received national or 
international recognition. He and the Egyptian ministry's general director described the grant as 
"prestigious." Also, a U.S. university professor of biology and forensic entomology stated: "This 
scholarship not only reflects his academic excellence but also demonstrates national recognition of his 
... contribution to the field of forensic entomology." But the record lacks sufficient independent, 
objective evidence corroborating the scholarship's purported recognition. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F.Supp.3d 126, 136 (D.D.C. 2013) ("Without evidence of how a larger audience viewed [a 
petitioner's] awards, there was no way for the agency to evaluate whether those awards were 
recognized widely enough to satisfy this criterion.") The scholarship's issuance by a national ministry 
does not automatically prove the grant's receipt of national recognition. The record does not show, 
for example, that the Petitioner received the scholarship publicly or that news or professional 
organizations reported the grant's issuance. 
Second, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the scholarship's issuance "in the field of endeavor." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). His academic records presumably showed that he studied entomology. But 
the record indicates that he competed for the grant with Egyptian doctoral students in other fields. The 
letter from the Egyptian ministry's general director does not state that the ministry limits the 
scholarship's availability to students who have studied entomology. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner's scholarship does not meet the parameters of the evidentiary 
requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We will therefore affirm the Director's finding. 
C. Membership in Associations 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [noncitizen]'s membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). If an association has multiple levels of membership, a petitioner must show that, to 
obtain their membership level, recognized national or international experts judged them to have made 
outstanding achievements in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his membership in various Egyptian scientific associations. As 
the Director found, however, the materials do not demonstrate that these associations require 
outstanding achievements of their members or judgments by recognized national or international 
experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states his membership in one of the associations since 2007. He states the 
group's affiliation with a larger international organization granting membership to those "who have 
made a notable contribution to forensic and legal medicine through practice, research, or training." 
He previously provided copies of printouts from the international association's website. 
The Petitioner's proof, however, does not meet all aspects of this evidentiary criteria. We have 
reviewed the international association's website. Its "Membership Criteria" section, which the 
4 
Petitioner's evidence omitted, states that the organization can elect "Judges, Coroners, Policemen, 
Lawyers, Forensic scientists, Physicians, Forensic Pathologists and toxicologists" to one of three 
membership levels: "Fellowship;" "Foundation Member;" or "Affiliate Member." Consistent with 
the Petitioner's statement, the website describes fellowship and foundation members as those "who 
have made a notable contribution to forensic and legal medicine through practice, research, or 
training." But the record does not indicate the Petitioner's membership level in the association. Ifhe 
is an affiliate member, evidence indicates that the organization would not have required him to have 
made a notable contribution in the forensic entomology field. Also, he has not demonstrated that "a 
notable contribution" meets this criterion's standard for "outstanding achievements." 
Further, even if the Petitioner has fellowship or foundation membership and the association's 
requirement for a notable contribution meets this criterion's requirement for outstanding 
achievements, neither the association's website nor the record demonstrates that recognized national 
or international experts judge the group's membership candidates. 
Thus, the Petitioner has not satisfied this evidentiary criterion. We will therefore affirm the Director's 
finding. 
D. Published Material about the Petitioner 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit copies of"[p]ublished material about [themselves] 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [their] work in the field 
for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "Such evidence shall include the title, 
date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
When adjudicating this criterion, users first determines whether published material relates to a 
petitioner and their specific work in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1 ). 
The material need not exclusively focus on a petitioner and their work. Id. "[P]ublished material that 
covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field and 
mentions the person in connection to the work may" suffice. Id. users may also consider "material 
that focuses solely or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team of which the person 
is a member, provided that the material mentions the person in connection with the work or other 
evidence in the record documents the person's significant role in the work or research." Id. 
The Agency then determines whether a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). When evaluating 
publications and media, relevant factors include: for professional and major trade publications, the 
intended audience; and, for major trade publications and other major media, the relative circulation, 
readership, or viewership. Id. 
The Petitioner provided online research profiles of himself and copies of articles citing work he co­
authored. He also provided a document indicating his appearance on a podcast episode called 
which a Lebanese radio station recorded. 
As the Director found, none ofthe evidence indicates that the articles or pod cast included a "substantial 
discussion" of the Petitioner and his work in his field. The articles merely cite -in footnotes and 
5 
endnotes without further discussion -articles that he co-authored. Also, contrary to USCTS policy, 
the record lacks a transcript of the podcast episode. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) 
("Evidence may include ... a transcript ofprofessional or major audio or video coverage ofthe person 
and the person's work.") The evidence therefore does not demonstrate that these publications 
substantially discussed the Petitioner and his work. 
As the Director also found, the record lacks evidence that the articles and podcast qualify as 
"professional or major trade publications, or other major media." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
Petitioner did not submit information about the publications' intended audiences or relative 
circulations, readerships, or viewership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims his inability to obtain a podcast transcript. He states that the episode 
was "recorded as audio" and contains a mix of the Arabic and English languages. 
Lacking corroboration, however, the Petitioner's statement does not sufficiently demonstrate the 
unavailability of a podcast transcript and a required certified translation of any Arabic language in it. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner also has not established the unavailability ofother evidence 
of the podcast episode, such as statements or declarations from its host or radio station employees who 
recorded it. See MatterofChawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 375-76 (holding that a petitioner bears the burden 
of demonstrating eligibility for a requested benefit). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of published material about 
himself in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to his work in his 
field. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding. 
E. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
This criterion requires "[e ]vidence of the [ non citizen]' s original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
USCTS first determines whether a petitioner made original contributions in their field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then examines whether the original contributions 
are of major significance to the field. Id. 
The Petitioner claims that his research includes original, scholarly contributions of major significance 
to the forensic entomology field. He provided copies of articles he co-authored, evidence of others' 
citations to his articles, and letters from both independent experts and scientists who have taught, 
worked with, or studied with him. 
Letters describe the Petitioner's research as "pioneering" and "groundbreaking." But, as the Director 
found, they "fail[] to illustrate how any one of [his] articles are considered to be of major significance 
in the field." The Petitioner claims that his work "has led to substantial advancements and has been 
widely cited by experts in the relevant domain." But evidence must include more than conclusory 
statements. "Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The letters on the Petitioner's behalf 
cite his research, for example, on mitochondrial DNA-based identification of forensically important 
6 
insects. But the letters do not explain the work's significance or how it advances the forensic 
entomology field. Id. ("Letters that merely ... make general and expansive statements regarding [ a 
petitioner and their] accomplishments are generally not persuasive.") 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his original, scholarly research constitutes a contribution of 
major significance in his field. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding regarding this 
evidentiary requirement. 
F. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of [their] authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has authored 
scholarly articles in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). A scholarly article 
reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse and is written by a researcher 
or expert in the field. Id. Scholarly articles also generally undergo peer review by other experts in the 
field of specialization. Id. 
The Agency next determines whether a publication qualifies as a professional, major trade, or major 
media publication. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). In evaluating publications and 
media, relevant factors include: for professional journals or major trade publications, the intended 
audience; and, for major media, the circulation, readership, or viewership relative to other media in 
the field. Id. 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner has co-authored at least nine scholarly 
articles. But the Director found insufficient evidence that they appeared in professional or major trade 
publications, or other major media. 
As the Director found, the record contains little information about the journals that published the 
Petitioner's articles. But copies of abstracts of his articles, his research profiles, articles citing his 
work, and letters on his behalf sufficiently demonstrate his articles' publications in professional 
journals in his field. For example, one independent expert, a vice president at a U.S. university division 
of agriculture, life, and veterinary sciences, stated that the Petitioner "has to his credit several 
publications in leading journals, pertinent to his field of endeavor." 
A preponderance of the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in 
professional publications in his field. Thus, we will withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
G. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit"[ e ]vidence that [they have] performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
7 
users first determines whether a pet1t10ner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or its division or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner is or was a leader within an organization. Id. In 
contrast, a critical role indicates that a petitioner "contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the [relevant] organization's ... activities." Id. 
users then determines whether an organization has a distinguished reputation. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). Relevant factors include not only an organization's relative size 
and longevity but also the scale of its customer base and relevant media coverage. Id. 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in leading/critical roles as a researcher and educator for 
various universities around the world. The Director found insufficient evidence of both his claimed 
leading/critical roles and the purported distinguished reputations of the universities. 
Contrary to the Director's finding, a preponderance of the evidence shows that the Petitioner 
performed in critical roles for universities in Egypt and Lebanon by developing their forensic 
entomology departments. For example, he has served as the sole assistant professor in the Egyptian 
university's forensic entomology department since its establishment in 2005. A letter from the 
school's acting dean of faculty states that the Petitioner's "exceptional expertise and dedication to his 
field were foundational in the university's decision to establish the forensic entomology program." 
The letter states that the program's growth and development under the Petitioner's supervision led a 
Brazilian university to agree to exchange knowledge and resources with the Egyptian school. The 
letter states that the Petitioner has also consulted on high-profile, criminal cases in Egypt. The acting 
dean stated: "His work has not only brought honor to [the university] but has also positioned Egypt 
as a hub of forensic science expertise in the region." 
We agree with the Director, however, that the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated the 
purported distinguished reputations of the Egyptian and Lebanese universities. The word 
"distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or "befitting an eminent 
person." Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. 
The Petitioner provided printouts of online information about the schools. But the record does not 
explain how the information establishes the universities' eminence, distinction, or excellence. For 
example, one printout shows the Egyptian school's world academic rankings by various publications. 
The rankings, however, do not appear high enough to demonstrate the school's possession of a 
distinguished reputation. See Karim v. Allen, No. 21-cv-2861-WJM-KLM, 2023 WL 4624896, *10 
(D. Colo. July 19, 2023) (affirming USCIS' finding that a petitioner did not demonstrate the 
"distinguished reputation" of a university for which she worked). 
Because the record does not sufficiently demonstrate the universities' qualifying reputations, the 
Petitioner has not met this evidentiary criterion. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding. 
The Petitioner has met one additional evidentiary criteria. But he remains one short of satisfying the 
required minimum for a final merits determination. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met the evidentiary requirements for classification as a noncitizen with 
extraordinary ability. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22726984 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur and researcher in the field of cybersecurity, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur and researcher who is currently working in the United States in the 
field of cybersecurity on his 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria, published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
Petitioner does not pursue his initial claim that he meets the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that 
meets this criterion. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not further address it in this 
decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the plain language requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
2 
the material. 1 The record contains several articles pertaining to the Petitioner. Articles published in 
Dark Horse, Toms Guide, SC Magazine, SP AMfighter News, and The Register mention the Petitioner 
and his role as co-founder and researcher for a cyber security intelligence company, and quote 
him regarding vulnerabilities inl I products and a tool that I I was producing to combat 
such threats. The Petitioner also submits other articles, including a 2009 article from Dark Reading 
identifying the Petitioner as a researcher with I and 2011 articles published in Global Security 
Magazine and Info Security Magazine that identify the Petitioner as a researcher witH I These 
articles also briefly quote the Petitioner regarding the projects each of his respective employers were 
undertaking at the time. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that the aforementioned articles reflect published 
material about him relating to his work. For example, the articles appearing in Toms Guide and SC 
Magazine articles quote the Petitioner re ardin vulnerabilities discovered in the _____ 
produced by companies such as and The Info Security Magazine 
article quotes the Petitioner regarding the rise of attacks a ainst banks and other 
institutions. The Global Security Magazine article, entitled I interviews the Petitioner but focuses primarily about the differences between 
I !attacks versus ______ attacks, rather than material about him. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the articles are explicitly about him and his work. Although we 
acknowledge that several articles consist of interviews of the Petitioner, and identify him and his 
employer, they do not include details about his career history or accomplishments. ile the Petitioner 
is briefly interviewed in each article in his capacity as researcher for I and I and 
discusses the companies' efforts to combat I I and vulnerabilities in __ products, the 
submitted documentation does not discuss the merits of the Petitioner's work, his standing in the field, 
any significant impact that his work has had on the field, or any other information so as to be considered 
published material about the Petitioner as required by this criterion. The submitted articles are about the 
threat of I and the vulnerabilities and defects inl I products. The published material itself 
is not about the Petitioner. The regulation requires that the published material be "about the alien" and 
"relating to the alien's work in the field." It is insufficient that the Petitioner be mentioned within 
published material appearing in one of the three regulatory required publication types. The inclusion of 
the phrase "about the alien" is not superfluous and, thus, it must have some meaning. Silverman v. 
Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 
F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). According to the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the 
relevant criterion in this matter, the published material must be both about the Petitioner and relating to 
his work in the field. 
Although he is referenced, the articles are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this 
regulatory criterion. Here, again, the Petitioner provided articles only about his work instead of articles 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
about him relating to his work. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment , and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. 2 For a critical 
role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment 's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 3 
The Petitioner claimed that he perfonned in a leading or critical role for two companies, I and I I In his decision, the Director detennined that the Petitioner had not established that these 
companies enjoyed a distinguished reputation as required by this criteria. 4 On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director's determination was erroneous . 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading role for The record contains a letter 
froml II I chief executive officer, who states tha is "a cybersecurity compa
that offers al I protection platfonn agains _____ attacks." According to the Pet the Petitioner co-founded ! I in Israel in 2014 and served as its vice president of 
research from 2014-2017 before assuming the same role in the United States for I 
which was founded in 2015. I !indicates that the Petitioner initially managed thel I 
research team before ultimately managing the day-to-day operations of this team and the which 
team. Upon review, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he performed in a leading 
role for 
The Petitioner, however, has not established that I I has a distinguished reputation, with 
"distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction , or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person."5 In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted documentation 
pertaining to reco nition received byl I The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that 
won th Award in 2016, 2017, and 2018, an award the Petitioner claims highlights 
"the most startups from Asia, Europe and the Americas ." The Petitioner also submitted 
evidence demonstrating that I I was listed among the top three vendors in I I 2018 
Group Test. According to the Petitioner, I I "is 
recognized global1y as the most trusted source for independent, fact-based c bersecurity guidance." 
The Petitioner also documented ! l naming tol 201 List as among I lnoting that is the top technology news and 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
3 See id. 
4 The Director did not specifically render a determination regarding whether the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical 
role for each of these organizations . 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
4 
infonnation source for solution providers, IT channel partners, and value-added resellers (V ARs)." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted documentation o 2019 19 acquisition an American 
multinational company described as "a leading provider o _____ security." 
Although the Petitioner presented evidence of receipt of various awards which denote 
!recognition in its field, he did not sufficientl y demonstrate their significance or relevance . 
Nor did he submit sufficient evidence portraying ! ! standing in the field. The Petitioner did not 
include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the organization, how its reputation 
compares to similar organizations, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to others, signifying 
a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted information aboutl I subsequent acquisition by in 2019 
from its website, but this information is not sufficient to demonstrate thatl now has a 
distinguished reputation in the cybersecurity field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) need not rely on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, affd 
317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). While we note the submission of key data for stock from 
www.forbes.com, this is simply a general overview of corporate and financial data and does not 
demonstrate how this organization has a distinguished reputation . There is insufficient corroborating 
evidence ofl l orl I standing in the field to establish that they are recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation "marked by eminence, distinction or excellence." 
The Petitioner also contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role forl as a I 
researcher and team lead from 2010-2012. A letter froml co-founder and 
chief technology officer, describes the company as "a cyber security company delivering application 
and data security products," and discusses the Petitioner's role as a team lead for research 
and the results he achieved for the company while employed in that position. The record demonstrates 
that the Petitioner performed in a critical role for The Petitioner, however, has not 
established that has a distinguished reputation . 
The Director determined that the evidence of awards received by I I was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the company was an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of the company's receipt of several awards, such as th A ward 
for Best I Solution from I in 2017 the Award in Best 
Solution at the Awards in 2017 for its and the 
Award Testing Award b an independent division of 
in 2016. The Petitioner also submitted an independent analysis of the market 
conducted by I demonstrating that !"provides a number of advanced security 
technologies and flexible deployment models to protect customers' Web applications against the 
broadest range of threats." 
As with I I awards, discussed above, the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate the 
significance or relevance of I awards. While the awards demonstrate thatl I garnered 
recognition in its field, the Petitioner did not include evidence showing the general field's view of the 
company, how its reputation compares to similar organizations, or how its products and processes 
relate to other companies, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
5 
Moreover, while the Petitioner relies on the analysis of the market, which 
resulted inl I receipt of the 2014 Leadership Award after a detennination that I I achieved a leadership position in the market in 2013, these accolades do not 
demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence portraying ! I standing in 
the field, nor did it objectively demonstrate thatl I has a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USC IS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
6 
Although the Petitioner has experience in the field of cybersecurity, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19131887 
Appeal of Decision Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sailing instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested classification. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two letters of recommendation previously submitted and a letter 
dated April 14, 2021, after the filing of the initial petition, offering the Petitioner employment as a 
head coach with a yacht club. Notably, the Petitioner did not provide a statement regarding the basis 
for the appeal, as instructed in Part 3 of Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, either in Part 7, 
Additional Information, of the form, or in a separate statement. 
Regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) state, in pertinent part, "An officer to whom an appeal is taken 
shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
The Petitioner here has not specifically identified erroneous conclusions of law or statements of fact 
in the decision notice. He does not articulate additional grounds of eligibility that the Director did not 
address nor did he contest the Director's decision. We are summarily dismissing the appeal because 
it does not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the unfavorable 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2023 In Re: 28559467 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business sustainability specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy at 
least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled 
only two criteria -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he meets five additional evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues: 
. . . [He] submitted the International A ward DAAD, and "best worker byl I~------~I The former, which USCIS confirmed to be an appreciable 
achievement for the [Petitioner], but erred in concluding that they both cannot be 
considered as a nationally or internationally recognized award. The letter from the 
Director of the [U]niversity I I simply satisfied this criterion requirement .... 
The [Petitioner] was one of five selected out of sixty-seven applicant[ s] across Africa, 
meeting with a very strict selection criteria number of other candidates for the award. 
The selection criteria in awarding it is enough evidence showing the reputation of the 
award, and the [Petitioner] has proved this by the submission of a confirmation letter 
from Professor [P-Q-] and the awarding organization. 
2 
First, USCIS determines if the person was the recipient of prizes or awards. 1 The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the 
awards or prizes comma as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
Second, USCIS determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
As it relates to the "Best Worker" fromD the Petitioner presented a photograph of the Petitioner 
with a caption stating "2014 Best Worker" and "Senior Category" and a certificate. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence regarding the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. 
As it pertains to DAAD, the Petitioner submitted a letter from Professor P-Q-who stated: 
[DAAD] provides scholarships and grants to young academics and scientists who have 
distinguished themselves through their study and research work through its partnership 
with Universities across the world. 
In 2017 [The Petitioner] was one of five selected out of sixty-seven applicants from 
across Africa. The scholarship financed his tuition in research work from 201 7 to 2021. 
The selection criteria included scholarly and development relevance as well as 
excellent academic credentials. The program is directed at outstanding researchers, 
policymakers and practitioners that are working on pressing development issues. 
The letter, however, does not discuss how the field views the scholarship or why the field considers 
the scholarship as a nationally or internationally prize or award for excellence. While many scholastic 
awards do not have the requisite level of recognition, there may be some that are nationally or 
internationally recognized as awards for excellence such that they may satisfy the requirements ofthis 
criterion.5 For example, an award available only to persons with a single locality, employer, or school 
may have little national or international recognition, while an award open to members ofa well-known 
national institution (including an Rl or R2 doctoral university) or professional organization may be 
nationally recognized. 6 In this case, although the letter provides some background information, the 
Petitioner did not establish the national or international recognition for excellence of the scholarship 
in the field. 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
4 Id. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 7 The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 8 
The Petitioner contends that he "submitted evidence showing that he is a member of !ASSIST 
[International Association for Social Science Information Services and Technology], I 
Committee and I IGlobal [H]ealth Catalyst Summit Committee." Although he indicates that he 
submitted evidence of membership, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision, make 
further arguments, or claim that membership with the .__________ _,committees requires 
outstanding achievements and is judged by recognized national or international experts as required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 
(BIA 2012)). Thus, we need not address these previous claims. 
Regarding !ASSIST, the Petitioner references his submission of a letter from W-N-A-who stated: 
[!ASSIST] is a professional body focused on research data in the social sciences. 
Practitioners in the discipline may apply to become a member. Membership 
applications are reviewed by the membership committee. Current members are 
affiliated with academic, governmental, non-profit, and commercial institutions from 
around the world. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the letter shows that membership with !ASSIST 
requires outstanding achievements and recognized national or international experts determine 
membership. In fact, based on the letter, membership requires practitioners in the discipline rather 
than outstanding achievements. Moreover, the letter does not explain whether the membership 
committee is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
4 I 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), users determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 9 users then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 10 Examples ofrelevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 11 
The Petitioner contends: 
[He] submitted original contributions which is [sic] of major significance in the field 
of business sustainability -"The I I 
implementing partners in Northern, upper east and upper west regions." 
[The Petitioner] developed and implemented the .____________ ____. 
I I a custom web-based software which has been in use for the past 5 years. Over 
the years,I I has been the medium ofreporting for FSW and MSW activities. 
In the words of the [Petitioner] who develop [sic] I Ihas the capability to 
determine the cost of reaching target population to build up the aggregate to plan 
appropriately. 
The record contains I IUser Manual, a Training Report from the .___________ _, and 
a recommendation letter. 12 According to the training report: 
The is a financial information system used by 
,____ _, to record and track rceipy and payments of funds related to HIV and AIDS 
[program] implementation. facilitates the collection, reporting and analysis of 
financial and [program] data for decision making. 
I Iis a custom web-based software and has been in use for the past 5 years. Over 
the years,~ has been the medium of reporting for FSW and MSM activities. 
In addition, a letter from R-N-A-, stated that the Petitioner "has developed bespoke software~
!--~ 
which optimi[z]ed HIV and AIDS project expenditure in Ghana through the automation of unit costs 
for HIV prevention, [behavior] change communication and mitigation expenditure" and "[t]hese 
interventions led to significant savings in the implementation of HIV grants in country." 
While the evidence reflects the Petitioner's original contribution, the Petitioner did not establish 
I Iqualification as a contribution of major significance in the field. Based on the documentation 
presented by the Petitioner,! Iusage and impact is limited tol IAnalysis under this criterion 
9 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
io Id. 
11 Id. 
12 Although the Petitioner submitted several other recommendation letters, only one discussesc=] 
5 
focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, significant contributions to the 
field. 13 For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance 
from others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others 
work in that field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor. 14 Similarly, evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted 
significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original 
contribution to the field. 15 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate, for example, how~has been 
widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, the letter from R-N-A-briefly indicates I I utilization and generally asserts to 
"significant savings" without further elaborating and providing specific details showing how ~I-~ 
impacted the field in a major way. Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and 
significance ofthe person's contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed 
original contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation 
corroborating the claimed significance. 16 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's 
contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's 
knowledge and expertise. 17 In this case, the letter lacks specific, detailed information explaining how 
D"optimi[z]ed HIV and AIDS project expenditure" and "led to significant savings." USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
USCIS first determines whether the person has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or division or department of an organization or establishment. 18 Then, 
USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which 
the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 19 The Petitioner 
claims eligibility for this criterion based on his role withc=]and references a letter from Dr. A-E­
A-and a certificate from Ofor "Best Worker," discussed under the award criterion above. 
13 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
14 Id. 
is Id. 
16 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
17 Id. 
18 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
19 Id. 
6 
In evaluating such evidence, officers examine whether the role is ( or was) leading or critical.20 Dr. 
A-E-A-stated: 
Over the period, he has been a key member of the team developing and overseeing the 
successful implementation offour ( 4) strategic plans for HIV and AIDS in Ghana (2001 
-2005; 2006 -2010); (2011 -2015); 2016 - 2020). 
[The Petitioner] has played a key role in the development and deployment of financial 
management systems to support interventions averaging over 100 million U.S. dollars 
per annum. His contributions to the national response include the development of an 
innovative remote financial management system to provide real time/live access to 
implementing partner data. The gains in time and financial resources of this online 
platform are ploughed back into programs to improve access to care and supJort forl 
communities. He has also been pivotal in developing partnerships which sustain 
as it coordinates a multi-sectoral national response to HIV and AIDS in Ghana. 
For a leading role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 21 A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), rfact[ leading. Here, the letter does not 
indicate that the Petitioner performed in a leading role with The letter, for instance, does not 
mention the Petitioner's job title or otherwise describe duties indicative of a leading role. 
For a critical role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in 
a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities 
or those of a division or department of the organization more establishment.22 It is not the title of the 
person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 23 Although the letter describes the Petitioner's role as "Key" and briefly lists some ofthe 
Petitioner's contributions, the letter does not farther elaborate and explain how those contributions 
were significantly important to I !activities. This is one criterion where letters from persons with 
personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, 
division, or department was leading or critical. 24 In addition, while the "Best Worker" certificate 
reflects presentation to the Petitioner "in recognition and appreciation for [his] relentless and dedicated 
service," performing admirably in one's work does not necessarily also mean performance in a critical 
capacity. The document, for example, broadly shows that the Petitioner "maintained excellence in the 
discharge of [his] duties and contributed significantly to the work ofl Ifor the year 2014] without 
indicating what duties he performed and how he contributed significantly. 
Moreover, although the Petitioner claims that the submitted documentation "show[ s] the reputation of 
the issuing organization," neither the certificate nor the letter discusses or reflects the distinguished 
20 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
21 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
22 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
23 Id. 
24 Id. 
7 
reputation ofO The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of 
itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a 
distinguished reputation exists. 25 Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an 
organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 26 
Hre, thl Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation establishing the distinguished reputation 
27of 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner argues the submission of his earnings report, comparative table, and support letter 
demonstrates eligibility for this criterion. USCIS determines whether the person's salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 28 
The Petitioner submitted a document entitled, "Estimated Earnings Report and Comparative Table," 
claiming that the Petitioner received an annual income of $56,087 in 2021. Further, the report/table 
also asserts that the average annual income for "Accountants & Finance Managers" from 
glassdoor.com and payscale.com is $10,414 and $9,964, respectively. In addition, the Petitioner 
provided a letter from J-O-D-, chartered accountant, who opined that "the declared annual earnings of 
[the Petitioner] exceed the income levels for equivalent levels of skill and experience in Ghana by a 
factor of 6." 
Although the letter indicates the Petitioner's "income [ w ]as verified by supporting pay slips and 
contractual agreements," the Petitioner did not submit this evidence to substantiate his income, 
employer(s), and occupation. Evidence relevant to demonstrating high remuneration may include, but 
is not limited to: tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for 
services; contract job offer letter, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services; 
and comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as geographical or position­
appropriate compensation surveys. 29 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide the referenced evidence from glassdoor.com and 
payscale.com to corroborate the claims from the letter and the report/table. When evaluating whether 
a comparison between the beneficiary's documented remuneration and the remuneration in the survey 
is accurate, the following considerations, among others, may be relevant: the description of the 
occupation, the validity of the survey, location and currency, and salary rate being measured. 30 
25 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
26 Id. 
27 Mirriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person." Id. 
28 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
29 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
30 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 
Furthermore, according to his resume, the Petitioner has been employed as a "Business Sustainability 
& Strategy Expert" since January 2021 and a "Disbursement Manager & Lead Investigator" since 
January 2009. Yet, the letter and report/table compare the Petitioner's 2021 earnings to the earnings 
of "Accountants & Finance Managers." The Petitioner did not show compare his income in relation 
to others in the field. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
In this case, the Petitioner did not offer sufficient evidence showing his earnings, nor did the Petitioner 
provide sufficient comparative salary data, with the appropriate occupation, establishing he 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As 
such, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies at least three evidentiary criteria. Therefore, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve this issues31 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely 
restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 
2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining 
that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal 
v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one ofthe most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
31 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
9 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing 
him among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 20142511 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies for the requested classification . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in I information science and engineering from the University of 
in August 2018. At the time of filing, the Petitioner held the position of principal research engineer and 
chief executive officer atl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
of the work of others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of 
scholarly articles, and we agree. Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has also 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. While we do not find all the 
Petitioner's assertions to be persuasive, we do agree that the submitted evidence, including reference 
letters which clearly explain how his contributions are of major significance and their impact on both the 
field and the authors' own work, are sufficient to meet the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. However, 
granting the third initial criterion does not, by itself, establish eligibility for the requested classification. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we are withdrawing the 
Director's decision and remanding the matter so that the Director may conduct a final merits 
determination consistent with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22679019 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief technology officer (CTO), seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a technical trainer, project manager, systems architect, and entrepreneur, claims to be 
multidisciplinary expert in the fields of science, business, and education. He currently serves as the 
chief executive officer and CTO for several companies, and seeks to continue working in his field of 
expertise in the United States as CTO for I in I New Jersey. As he 
has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence pertaining to seven of the ten criteria, including evidence of awards 
he received, published materials, service as a judge or juror, authorship of scholarly articles, original 
contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii)-(vi), (viii)-(ix) . The Director determined that he satisfied one criterion for leading 
or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director misclassified his field of extraordinary eligibility, 
and that the misclassification resulted in an erroneous determination that he only met one of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He further asserts that he meets the remaining six criteria as originally 
claimed, and submits additional evidence in support of this assertion. 
The Petitioner provided a supporting cover letter with the initial filing in which he described his 
employment background and work experience, and broadly stated that he possessed extraordinary 
ability in the fields of science, business, and education. In Part 6 of the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition 
for Alien Worker (Form 1-140), the Petitioner listed his job title as "CHIEF TECHNOLOGY 
OFFICER (CTO)," and described his position as "handling both executive and technical decisions for 
the company & appointing executive managers." The Petitioner emphasized his multidisciplinary 
experience and noted that his areas of expertise included artificial intelligence, machine learning, web 
application development, embedded systems, robotics, and big data analytics. The Petitioner also 
expressed his intent to continue working in the United States as a CTO and, while no offer of 
employment is required for the requested classification, submitted a letter froml I 
2 
President of confirming the company's offer of employment to the 
Petitioner for the position of CTO at its offices in New Jersey. 
The Petitioner discussed his experience and expertise, and broadly claimed to qualify as an individual 
of extraordinary ability in the fields of science, business, and education. However, none of the 
evidence he submitted in support of the petition identifies with any specificity his area of extraordinary 
ability. Although the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), he did not seek clarification of the 
Petitioner's area of extraordinary ability. Instead, the Director concluded in the RFE that the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor was electrical engineering and materials science, and requested evidence 
in support of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability in that field. 1 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner argued that the Director's conclusions regarding his field of 
endeavor and work intentions were incorrect, and requested that the Director evaluate his eligibility 
as a CTO based on the claims outlined in his initial supporting documentation. Specifically, while the 
Petitioner acknowledged that he did in fact possess expertise in electrical engineering and materials 
science, 2 he reaffirmed that his field of endeavor was in fact multidisciplinary, and requested that the 
Director evaluate his eligibility as a CTO in multidisciplinary fields as originally claimed. 3 
In dismissing the appeal, the Director, citing to Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. 
Comm. 1998), concluded that the Petitioner's assertions regarding the nature of his field of endeavor 
in response to the RFE constituted a material change to the petition, noting that a petitioner may not 
make material changes to a petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. The Director concluded that the Petitioner's area of expertise was electrical engineering 
and materials science, and evaluated the Petitioner's evidence as it pertained to extraordinary ability 
in that particular field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again contests the Director's determination regarding his expertise and field 
of endeavor, and maintains that his response to the RFE contained no material change to the petition. 
Specifically, the Petitioner points out that his extraordinary ability in the fields of science, business, 
and education, as well as his intent to continue working as a CTO in the United States, was clearly 
articulated in both the Form I-140 and in his initial supporting documents. The Petitioner argues that 
the Director's unilateral conclusion that his field of endeavor was electrical engineering and materials 
science, despite his objections in response to the RFE, was erroneous. 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion. The documents submitted in support of the 
petition demonstrate that the Petitioner claimed extraordinary ability as a multidisciplinary expert in 
the fields of science, business, and education at the time of filing. Therefore, the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner's articulation of such claims in response to the RFE constituted a 
material change to the petition is misplaced. Here, the Director did not accurately identify or explain 
1 Specifically, the Director stated, "The Petitioner intends to work as an electrical engineer and material science expert for 
electronic devices." 
2 In reviewing the Petitioner's letter of support, he stated on page 5 that "I am considered a person of extraordinary ability 
in the field of electrical engineering and material science for electronic devices." 
3 In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated, "I sincerely request the immigration officer not to consider 'electrical engineer 
and material science expe1i for electronic devices' as my only area of expertise and intended area of work because I am 
also a Technical Educator, CEO, CTO, Project manager, System Architect and Entrepreneur." 
3 
the deficiencies in the evidence as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), 4 but instead concluded that 
the Petitioner's field of endeavor was exclusively limited to electrical engineering and materials 
science, despite the Petitioner's objections and assertions to the contrary. 
Therefore, we are remanding the matter for the Director to seek further information and clarification 
of the Petitioner's area of extraordinary ability, as he cannot proceed with an assessment of the 
Petitioner's eligibility within the context of Kazarian 's two-step analysis until the Petitioner conveys 
a meaningful understanding of his area of extraordinary ability. The Director may issue an RFE 
requesting additional evidence addressing this critical element. Once the Petitioner provides the 
necessary clarification about extraordinary ability and his field of endeavor, the Director shall then 
analyze the supporting evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has submitted the required initial 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria and, 
if met, shall assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter is remanded for further 
consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent with the above analysis. 
4 See also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2023 In Re: 28563276 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a provider of business, computing, and human capital management solutions, seeks to 
classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim, and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. In addition, the individual must seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability and their entry must be of 
substantial prospective benefit to the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recogmt10n of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the 
petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets 
at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is employed by the Petitioner, a leading provider of human capital management 
products and services, as Vice President -Product Management, Small Business Services. The 
Petitioner asserts that she is eligible for classification as individual of extraordinary ability in business, 
specifically in the field of corporate product strategy. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets 
three criteria: 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Performance in leading or critical roles; and 
• High salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only one of the three claimed criteria. 
Specifically, the Director concluded that she has served in leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, and thus satisfied the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish 
the Beneficiary's original contributions ofmajor significance in her field and her high salary in relation 
to others, thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix). The Petitioner contends that 
the Director did not folly and correctly review the information and documentary evidence submitted 
in support of the petition and in response to a request for evidence (RFE), and "applied arbitrary 
evidentiary standards, linguistic interpretations and definitions not found in regulations, guidance or 
practice." After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary satisfies three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3)(v). 
2 
In determining that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion, the 
Director stated that the record contained "no documentary evidence" such as "published material 
patents, copyright or trademark material" to corroborate the Beneficiary's contributions, noting that 
without such evidence, the Petitioner had not illustrated "the originality of the contribution." The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted two letters from company executives, as well as 
"other correspondences," "website print screens" and "other documents" but concluded that the 
evidence was insufficient to establish the major significance of the Beneficiary's business-related 
contributions. However, the Director's analysis is limited to discussion of a single letter submitted at 
the time of filing and does not address other evidence relevant to this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that the evidence the Director characterized as "other correspondence" and "other 
documents" was submitted to corroborate its claims regarding the Beneficiary's significant 
contributions and was not considered. 
In evaluating whether a given beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance, 
relevant evidence may include, but is not limited to, published materials about the significance oftheir 
work and letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance ofthe person's original 
contribution. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
( discussing factors to be considered in evaluating initial evidence of extraordinary ability under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Here, the Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary initiated strategies for 
development of its small business product line which have been influential in the human capital 
management industry and impactful in the broader field of business. The Petitioner further contended 
that the Beneficiary's product development strategies and initiatives have a far-reaching impact on 
how small businesses manage their human resources functions, due to the company's market position 
as a leader serving over 800,000 clients in this sector. The Petitioner's president emphasized in her 
letter that the company's "actions set the benchmark for the human capital industry and how it serves 
its clients" and that the Beneficiary was responsible for several product strategies and initiatives that 
received industry-wide notice. 
The record contains ample evidence establishing the Petitioner's market position and reach in its 
industry. In addition, the Petitioner submitted detailed, credible letters from its senior executives 
explaining the Beneficiary's original contributions to its product strategies and product offerings in 
the small business sector as well as evidence that new product features, prominent partnerships and 
other innovative strategies and tools introduced by the Beneficiary have been featured in industry 
publications. The Petitioner also submitted probative letters from executives at other companies who 
explain that they deem the Beneficiary's strategies and techniques for product management to be best 
practices and, as such, have introduced similar initiatives within their own enterprises. These letters 
and other evidence corroborate the Petitioners claims regarding the significance of the Beneficiary's 
contributions. After considering all evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that 
the Petitioner established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In determining that the evidence was insufficient to establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, 
the Director observed that she has received a base salary as high as $220,000 for fiscal year 2021. The 
3 
Director acknowledged various evidentiary exhibits containing comparative wage data but concluded 
that the data provided was "not based on an individual in a comparable field," "is not based on the 
years that the beneficiary earned the salary," and was limited to data showing "average salary" 
information for "those performing work in a related but distinct occupation." On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director mischaracterized or overlooked some of the evidence submitted in support of 
this criterion. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner met its burden to establish that the 
Beneficiary, more likely than not, has commended a high salary in relation to others in her field. 
First, although the Director determined that the Beneficiary's highest documented salary was 
$220,000, the Petitioner provided evidence that her annual base salary, as of August 2022, was 
$279,272. The Petitioner's evidence included comparative data from Department of Labor sources 
for both financial and marketing managers. The Petitioner conceded that the nature of the 
Beneficiary's role as a divisional vice president for product management is not an exact match for 
either of these occupational classifications. However, it also provided a Wilson Towers Watson 
(WTW) salary survey that focuses on "Senior Group Managers" in the product management discipline 
within large international organizations and which is specific to the geographic area where the 
Beneficiary works. We disagree with the Director's finding that this survey provided only "average 
salaries" or that the provided data was for a distinctly different occupation. The WTW survey indicates 
a 2022 90th percentile base salary of $248,993 for the referenced occupation. Based on a comparison 
ofthe Beneficiary's $279,272 base salary to this data, we find the Petitioner met its burden to establish 
that she has commanded a high salary and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary satisfies the initial evidence requirements for 
this classification by meeting three ofthe criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), it has overcome the only 
stated ground for denial ofthe petition. However, meeting three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) does not, by itself, establish eligibility for the requested classification. Accordingly, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision that includes a 
final merits determination consistent with Kazarian. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii), and (ix), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of the 
evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of her field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18603110 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 28, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a medical consultant , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements . A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical consultant who previously served as the Director of the Department of 
Diabetes I I at the I I University'----~-~~----' Hospital in China. 
Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria relating to her original contributions of 
major significance to her field, and her leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion regarding 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, as the record the demonstrates that the Petitioner 
performed peer review for a number of scholarly journals. The record also demonstrates the 
Petitioner's authorship of numerous scholarly articles in the medical field. However, as discussed 
below, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner claims that she has made original 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 
contributions of major significance in the field of diabetes and gout/hyperuricemia as evidenced by 
her published research, her participation in projects and academic conferences, and endorsements from 
other experts in the field. On appeal, she asserts that the Director failed to properly address the 
evidence submitted in support of her eligibility under this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims that while her research and clinical contributions have "encompassed a wide 
spectrum of areas within [the fields of] Endocrinology and Metabolism," her most important original 
contribution is her scientific findings on the relationship between! land diabetes. She submitted 
evidence demonstrating that she published articles on this topic as the first author in journals such as 
the Chinese Journal of Practical Internal Medicine, the Chinese Journal of Diabetes, and the 
International Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism, and served as corresponding author in 
numerous other published articles. She asserts that the journal rankings, as well as each journal's impact 
factor, are elements that should contribute to her satisfying this criterion's requirements. The 
Petitioner, however, has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular journals 
inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an original contribution 
of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the 
publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on 
the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution 
of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly 
ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that she has published more than 80 "highly valued academic 
articles," and that her published articles have been cited nearly 600 times. 2 As it relates to the 
cumulative citations of her work, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
identify her original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance 
in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication 
record rather than identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence pertaining to her publication and citation record from Google 
Scholar, PubMed, and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) China Integrated 
Knowledge Resources System, which provides comparable information for Chinese language 
publications that cite to her work. 3 But this evidence does not show that the impact of her work on 
the overall field of diabetes! I or related fields rises to the level of an original contribution of 
2 In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submits a letter frornl O I who "verifies" her cumulative citation 
numbers. Absent conoborating evidence such as citation indexes or statistics, this unsupp01ted testimonial letter is 
insufficient to establish this claimed fact. 
3 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work, and claims 
that her overall citation rate is high, do not demonstrate that any specific work of hers is so widely cited and relied upon 
that it is considered to have made a major impact in her field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others 
in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination. 
3 
major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that her articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [her] contributions to the field of endeavor."4 
The Petitioner has demonstrated that her most cited article is ' 
.__ ___ cublished in Diabetes Care in 2008. The evidence from Google Scholar reflects that this 
article, with 161 citations, has more than four times as many citations as her next most cited article, as 
the documentation from CNKI indicates that two articles published in the Chinese Journal of Diabetes 
and the Chinese Journal of Endocrinology received 40 and 31 citations, respectively. 5 While the 
Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters that briefly address 
her research in this area, that evidence, as will be discussed in more detail below, is not sufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner's research is regarded as an original contribution of major significance that 
has remarkably impacted or influenced her field. 
The Petitioner also provided a CNKI list of published articles byl I who she claims is 
a scholar in the diabetes fields and one of her peers. According to the information presented,□ 
I Is highest cited article received a total of 87 citations. Noting that her highest cited article 
garnered a total of 161 citations, the Petitioner concluded that these statistics demonstrate that her 
citation numbers "are relatively high among prominent scholars" in the field, which therefore 
evidences the significance of her achievements. The Director declined to afford evidentiary wei ht to 
this evidence, which the Petitioner challenges on appeal. Specifically, she points out that 
in addition to being the current Director of the I !university~-------~ 
Hospital, is also a reviewer of the China National Natural Science Foundation, a standing committee 
member of the Chinese Diabetes Association, and a visiting scholar at thd I Diabetes Center at I !University. Based on these professional accomplishments, the Petitioner asserts that her 
citation statistic could be considered "a baseline, or at least an indicator of the general view of a 
contribution of major significance." 
The comparative ranking of her top cited article to another individual she deems a peer in her field, 
however, does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions in the field. Again, the 
issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance 
in the field rather than where her highest cited article ranks against one other individual's article in the 
field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to 
other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well 
as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Further, highly-cited publications alone are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as the number 
of citations for a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the impact or 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of her articles contained self-citations. 
4 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that her research received funding from th~ I Science 
and Technology Commission, which oversees thel !Natural Science Foundation. The Director 
found this evidence insufficient to demonstrate original contributions of major significance, noting 
that original academic research generally must receive funding. The Director determined that receipt 
of a municipal grant did not equate a project to an original contribution of major significance, as grants 
serve to fund research that aligns with the grantees' goals as opposed to award the Petitioner's 
contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the criteria for issuing the grant, which it claims are "highly strict 
and application-oriented," demonstrate that the grant was based on progress and data that she has 
already achieved, and thus recognized her past excellence in her field of endeavor. We have reviewed 
the referenced criteria, and find that it does not support the Petitioner's assertion. Specifically, Article 
2 of the criteria submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) states as follows: 
The Natural Science Foundation focuses on funding applied research in natural science, 
guiding the city's scientific and technological personnel to conduct forward-looking 
scientific issues and cutting edge technology research based on the needs ofl I 
economic and social development. It also provides funding for training of high-level 
innovative individuals, and provide[ s] scientific and technological support for the [] 
strategic emerging industries in the city. 
Emphasis added. 
Contrary to the Petitioner's appellate assertion, it appears that grants issued by this foundation promote 
"forward-looking scientific issues," and we therefore agree with the Director's determination. Once 
again, the issue is whether her research qualifies as an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. Receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance 
in-and-of-itself; rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or other similar funding 
reflects the major significance of her past work, or that her research conducted with the funding 
resulted in contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that she has "gathered widespread academic recognition evidenced by 
countless invitations to the most authoritative global academic conferences." The Director determined 
that the submitted evidence was insufficient to demonstrate her eligibility under this criterion. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination regarding this issue. 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's conclusions. Many professional fields regularly hold 
conferences and symposia to present new work, to discuss new findings, and to network with other 
professionals. Professional associations, businesses, educational institutions, and government 
agencies promote and sponsor these conferences. Participation in such events, however, does not 
necessarily result in an original contribution of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated the impact of her findings after dissemination to the field at any of the claimed 
conferences. 
5 
The Petitioner highlights her role in founding the Department of Diabetes! I atl I I I University I I Hospital, as well as her role in founding thel I I I Professional Committee. The Director found that neither of these 
accomplishments constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the foundation of a clinic did not qualify, and the foundation of the 
committee, while admirable, did not constitute an original contribution of major significance as the 
impact of the committee on the field of diabetd I in general could not be determined . 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her foundation of the diabetes I I department in fact 
satisfied this criterion, noting that at the time of its creation, there were no specialized medical 
departments or hospitals to connect diabetes! I She asserts that her foundation of this 
department was far-sighted, filled a vacancy for diagnosis and treatment of these combined diseases 
and ultimately promoted the development of China in this field. In support of her assertion that these 
accomplishments are original contributions of major significance, she relies on testimonial letters from 
others in the industry. 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in 
journals, and point to the citations of her work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of her 
work, they do not sufficiently articulate how her research and findings have been considered of such 
importance and how their im act on the field rises to the level of major significance required by this 
criterion. 6 For instance, discusses the Petitioner's founding of the Department of 
Diabetes! land the ______________ -Professional Committee, and notes 
that both of these accomplishments represent the "first and only" in China. While he states that the 
founding of the department has provided "an excellent platform for the research of diabetes D I Jin the whole country," and that the committee has "dramatically expanded the research 
held and s1gmhcantly promoted interdisciplinary research," he did not further elaborate or discuss the 
research advancements related to the creation of the department and the committee, nor did he explain 
how their creation has impacted and influenced the overall field. 
Similarly! !claims that the Petitioner has made original contributions to the metabolism 
.-fi.cl.d....tqough her research on the degree of damagel I. 
L_Jfurther claims that the Petitioner has "completed several breakthrough and milestone projects 
in the metabolism/diabetes field," and concludes that her findings "have improved our understanding I I which is definitely a significant breakthrough in the treatment of diabetes." In support of 
this assertion,! briefly references the Petitioner's article ._ _____________ __. 
._ __________________ ___. and concludes that her research is not "not only 
a contribution to the research field but also to clinical use." While the letter praises the Petitioner's 
research,! I did not indicate that the Petitioner's research onl I has resulted in proven new 
treatments or has otherwise had a significant impact on the field of diabetes research. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not afford ro er evidentia weight to a 
testimonial letter froml land correspondence fro~ ... ...,----,----.=====1..:s:.::u:.::b~m:::i:.:.:tt:.:e.::d..:in.::.., 
response to the RFE. We have reviewed the documentation fro .. 'L ___ ...Jan.__ ______ _ 
but do not find their contents persuasive . 
6 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
.__ __ __.I Professor of Biochemistry at the University ______________ , states that 
~dgment, the Petitioner has "excelled and achieved significant level of recognition in the field 
L___JDiabetes research, particularly inl I studies," and states that her 
research result, which he deems "a really rare and valuable one considering the size and time-span of 
her study-has provided me a comprehensive database in the treatment of type 2 diabetes." 
Similar tol Is statements,! ldoes not indicate that the Petitioner's research has broadly 
impacted the field of diabetes research or otherwise resulted in proven new treatments . Instead, his letter 
attests to the still-unrealized potential of the Petitioner's research in the use ofl I for diabetes 
treatment. For example! !indicates that while he is fascinated by the Petitioner's research, the 
implementation of such research, currently performed on animals, will only be efficient and accurate for 
human use when "at least two different does can be used to identify the most effective dose." Projections 
of the future impact resulting from the Petitioner's work do not establish that she has already made such 
a contribution . 
The Petitioner also submitted records of her correspondence wittt I who indicates that 
her department has "been able to carry out some research, which has not been published yet," and 
indicates that a future collaboration "sounds promising." This correspondence, however, does not 
identify the manner in which, if at all, the Petitioner's research or work influencP-dl l's 
studies, and appears to simply represent the Petitioner's interest her work and the possibility for a future 
collaboration. This correspondence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance as required by this criterion. 
Finall , the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred by not considering a letter submitted by 
1 _____ __.=e=mber of the American Academy of Kinesiology at the University I I 
r------,_ ___ ...... which proposes a future academic collaboration. A review of this letter indicates that 
....._ __ _ praises the achievements of the Petitioner and expresses a strong intent to collaborate with her 
on lifestyle intervention methods pertaining to diabetes! I While a testament to the Petitioner's 
accomplishments, proposing future collaborative studies in the field does not satisfy this criterion. 
Although! !expresses optimism that they can create a brand-new innovative treatment, projections 
of the future impact resulting from the Petitioner's work do not establish that she has already made such 
a contribution. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of her research through 
recommendation letters praising her for her contributions, the authors do not provide specific examples 
of contributions that are indicative of major significance. The letters do not contain specific, detailed 
infonnation explaining the unusual influence or high impact her research or work has had on the 
overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix . 
8 Id. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although the letters reflect the novelty of her 
work, they do not show how her research and findings have been considered of such importance and 
how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was (1) leading or 
critical; (2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation . For the reasons outlined below, we find that the 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that she has served in a critical role for the UniversityD I I Hospital as the Director of the Diabetes.__ __ _. Department. 9 In support of this 
assertion, she points to documents from I ! Director of the hospital's Personnel Department, 
and verification letters frortj I 
In order to demonstrate that a petitioner served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the petitioner's 
performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical.10 
In an affidavit submitted on appeal, I I addressed a date discrepancr m the Petitioner's 
employment, and clarified that she served in the role of Director of the Diabetes.__ __ ....,bepartment 
for thel I Universirrl I Hospital from 2002 to 2016. In a letter 
submitted in response to the RFE .__ _ ___.btated that the Petitioner had been a "critical asset" to the 
hospital and had undertaken critical responsibilities in her role as Director, including participation in 
outpatient intractable case consultation, supervision of graduate candidates, hosting meetings and 
seminars, undertaking emergency tasks, and serving in an expert role for the hospital's Clinical 
Supervision Committee and the People's Mediation Committee o~ !Medical Disputes. He 
further noted that she was the founder of the Department, and referenced her appointment to numerous 
committees and associations including the American Diabetes Association . 
Whild I outlined her role and associated duties as Director of the Diabetd I Department 
for the hospital, he did not provide detailed examples showing how her performance in this role 
resulted in improving the Department's influence in the medical field. While he indicates that the 
Department was evaluated by a professional committee and approved as a sub-center of the 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director incorrectly assessed whether the Petitioner performed in a leading role 
despite her specific assertion that the role was critical. 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix . 
8 
.__ ______ ___.I Management Center of Asia Pacific Consortium in 2018, and that such status 
allows the hospital to participate in various clinical studies in Asia, he does not discuss the nature or 
extent of the Petitioner's role, if any, in advancing the Department's achievement of such status.~ 
0did not provide specific examples reflecting the importance of the Petitioner's work to the outcomes 
of the hospital itself. Absent detailed information addressing how the Petitioner's role for thel I 
.__-,--__ 1urversittl !Hospital was of significant importance to the outcome of 
that entity, letter is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a critical role for 
the hospital. 
The Petitioner also relies on a letter from I I the hospital's Director of Medical 
Administration . states that the Petitioner was instrumental in facilitating the hospital's 
achievement of national' ...._ _____________ classification." Specifically , he states 
that the Petitioner was "the ONLY director-level clinical expert who is confident enough to 
recommend its department to be evaluated by the national classification committee," and claims that 
her department played a vital role in garnering the highest level ranking for the hospital. He further 
states that the hospital's partnership with I I and I I would not have come to fruition 
without the Petitioner. 
---~!however, does not describe with sufficient detail how the Petitioner played a critical role in 
the successes enjoyed by the hospital. He does not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's 
actions contributed to the acquisition of the referenced research partnerships or the hospital's ratip..2.,-, 
Moreover, while he states that the Petitioner has been invited "at least twice b~ I and LJ 
.___ _ _,Ito steer multiple cross-strait academic exchange activities with! t and that she has 
presided over several academic lectures and given keynote speeches, these accolades do not 
demonstrate that her position amounts to a critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that 
benefits their employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not established that her work for the 
hospital was critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or 
projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from I , I former Director of the I ~ 
University I I Hospital. I !reiterates the Petitioner's role in founding the 
Department of Diabetes! I and claims that she "helped establish a scientific and medical 
management system" which contributed to the hospital's receipt of its highest level I I rating. 
He also discusses her research projects and publications during the course of her employment with the 
hospital which garnered her recognition from the field, noting thatl J an~ 
partnered with the hospital based on her reputation. I ts letter, similar to those froml____Ja'ilt I l does not offer specific examples showing how the Petitioner's work for the hospital directly 
resulted in the partnerships withl landl I or directly contributed to the hospital's 
receipt ofl I status. 
The submitted letters lack detailed examples showing how the Petitioner contributed to thd I 
.__ __ _,IUniversit~ I Hospital in a manner that was critical to the hospital's 
activities . Despite providing accolades of the Petitioner's accomplishments, the letters do not offer 
specific examples of how her research, published work, and role as Director of the Diabetes I I 
Department contributed to the activities of the hospital. Letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as 
9 
long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the 
petitioner 's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 11 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director erroneously focused on the 
reputation of the Department of Diabetes I I rather than the hospital in general, in determining 
whether the hospital was an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. The 
Director's decision states as follows: "You did not qrovide objective documentation to show that the 
Department ofDiabete~ I a~._ _____ _,JUniversityl I Hospital is an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. has a distinguished reputation." The 
Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by not considering evidence such as the hospital's ranking in 
China. Upon review, however, we agree with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the record is not 
supported by objective, independent documentation establishing that the hospital holds a distinguished 
reputation . 12 Further, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements . 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 15. As the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a critical 
role for the hospital, however, further analysis of the hospital's reputation serves no meaningful 
purpose 
The Petitioner also claims on appeal that her role as a committee member for the I I 
1=====:;---_,,.,I was critical to that organization. According to a letter froml Is president, 
.__ ____ _.!the Petitioner was invited to be one of 17 committee members upon the organization's 
inception in 2017. The letter states that she engaged in on line lectures, accumulated data, and 
participated in WeChat discussion groups. The Director determined that this letter was of little 
significance, noting that it did not demonstrate how her role differentiated her from other committee 
members, and further determined that the record lacked evidence demonstrating thatl I was an 
establishment or organization that enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's findings, noting that in addition to not affording 
the letter sufficient evidentiary weight, the Director improperly evaluated the Petitioner's role with I I as a leading role, rather than a critical role. The Petitioner asserts that the letter from the 
chairman indicates that she performed in a critical role that distinguished her performance from the 
other 16 committee members, noting that she had been in charge of improving the quality oflong-term 
training programs for implementation in hospitals. 
As noted by the Director, however, the letter from the chairman is not in compliance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (g)(l) which provides, in relevant part, that "[e]vidence relating to 
qualifying experience or training shall be in the form of letter(s) from current or former employer(s) 
or trainer(s) and shall include the name, address, and title of the writer .... " Moreover , the author of 
this correspondence does not indicate, nor does the record demonstrate, that he currently or has in the 
past employed the Petitioner. In addition, the letter is devoid of specific examples demonstrating how 
the Petitioner's committee membership was critical to the organization itself. For these reasons, we 
concur with the Director's determination that this letter is not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix 
12 We exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion . See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 
(AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial 
decision. Furthermor e, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. 
Petitioner performed in a critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that her role as Chairwoman for the.__ ____________ ___. 
Committee o~ !Association of Medicine and Health was leading or critical to that organization. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the committee and whether it qualifies as an organization or 
establishment as contemplated by the regulations. However, we note preliminarily that the Petitioner 
has not shown that her role as committee cha~ constitutes a leading or critical role for thee=] 
~----------~ Committee ofL__J Association of Medicine and Health as a whole. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of a certificate demonstrating that she held the title of 
chairwoman. However, she has not provided specific information or details in the form ofletters from 
employers relating to her role as the chairwoman of the committee. The Petitioner's title alone, without 
specific information relating to what she did or her impact on the committee in that role, is insufficient 
to demonstrate that she hr perfo,ed either a leading or critical role forl I I Committee of Association of Medicine and Health as a whole. 
In summary, none of the evidence provided demonstrates that the petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The letters 
considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678750 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a solution director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is a world-renowned expert in developing and designing computer 
algorithms inl I supply chain manufacturing processes." In the ast the Petitioner has 
worked as an advisory consultant for a a business IT lead for a manager of 
technology consulting advisory services for and a senior product manager for I I Since 2018, the Petitioner has worked as a solution director for I I in I I New Jersey. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pe1iaining to judging the work of 
others and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion 
pertaining to original contributions of major significance. The Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding authorship of scholarly articles, and therefore he has waived appeal 
on that issue. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one criterion, relating to 
participation as a judge of the work of others. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulvedav. US. Att '.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them onappealto theAAO). 
2 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded thatthe Petitioner's work has been lucrative for his employers 
and "useful to the [ client] companies," but that the Petitioner had not shown "the major significance of 
the products or the widespread impact that the products have had on the field as a whole." 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes from previously submitted letters and asserts that he has met his burden 
of proof. We will discuss examples of the submitted evidence below. 
The Petitioner devoted a substantial portion of his initial statement to this criterion, mostly relating to his 
"Original Scientific contributions in manufacturing engineering and supply chain automation for I I and medical device and diagnostic business." The Petitioner also submitted thousands of 
pages of technical documentation. This evidence shows the work that the Petitioner has performed, but 
such documentation is not evidence of its own significance. The Petitioner asserted that he developed 
several projects that contributed td "great commercial success,"but the regulatory standard 
requires evidence of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not established that "great 
commercial success" for his employer amounts to major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters fro ml I officials and others. Many of these letters, like 1he 
Petitioner's own statement, provide technical details about specific projects and assert that the Petitioner's 
work has major significance, without explaining how his contributions benefit the field as a whole, ra1her 
than individual employers or customers. 
For example, a vice president a who previously worked with the Petitioner at and stated that the Petitioner's work at l"will help to transform 
I !companies to adopt Smart Manufacturing, Adaptive Plant and Digital Twins. This 
solution will have revolutionary impact [ on thel I I industry" and "will help the I industry to become resilient to any disruption." However, as phrased it appears that 1hese 
products are still under development, and the letter discusses the potential future impactofthe Petitioner's 
work rather than showing that such work is already a contribution of major significance. 
A director ofl I stated that the Petitioner developed a that "helps 
companies to deal with constantly changing prices of commodities have a real impact on bottom line [sic] 
and shift Global manufacturing and procurement to favorable markets." The same individual states that 
the Petitioner's "work are [sic] beingusedasreferencetemplate [sic] for supply chain integration." These 
assertions do not indicate the extent to which the Petitioner's products are used in the field, or the 
significance of their impact. 
Atthe outset, we note some aspects that call into question some of the letters submitted. Where an opinion 
is in any way questionable, we may reject or give less weight to that evidence. See Matter of Caron 
International, 19I&NDec. 791 (Comm'r 1988). 
Letters attributed to different people contain identical wording. For example, two letters attributed to 
current or former officials at I contain the following nearly-identical passages (note: 
grammatical errors and unnecessary capitalizations have not been conected): 
3 
[The Petitioner] has performed 
exceptionally well during his tenure of 
work in Product Development and 
clinical trial team. He has worked in 3 
projects as follows: 
1. Stability Study: 
stability study and continuous 
validation and verification process is 
very critical and complex. The 
slightest variation of any stability 
parameter may have adverse impact on 
patient's life. He played a very critical 
role as subject matter expe1i and 
crafted all technical specification and 
validation scripts to ensures hundred 
percent compliance and accountability 
as per Q1A(R2) Stability Testing of 
N ew _____ and Products. 
The Petitioner's knowledge 
management 
and management helped in 
integration stability study with 
downstream logistics Supply chain 
processes. [The Petitioner's] contribution was 
phenomenal during his tenure of work in 
Product Development and clinical trial 
team. He has worked and already in 3 
projects as follows: 
1. Stability Study: 
stability study and continues validation 
and verification process is very critical 
and complex. The slightest variation of 
any stability parameter may have direct 
impact on patient. He played a very 
critical role as subject matter expert and 
crafted all technical specs and validation 
scripts to ensures hundred percent 
compliance and accountability as per 
Q1A(R2) Stability Testing of New I I and Products. [The 
Petitioner's] knowledge I I I management and I 
management helped in integration 
stability studywith downstream logistics 
Supply chain processes. 
Two other letters attributed to current or former officials of (Clinical Diagnostics are, for the most 
part, nearly identical to one another. 2 The nearly identical language in the letters "suggests that the letters 
were all prepared by the same person and calls into question the persuasive value of the letters' 
content." SeeHamalv. U.S. Dep 'to/Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 
2021).3 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown his contributions to 
be significant beyond his employers and their clients. The Director requested"[ o ]bjective, documentary 
evidence ofthe [Petitioner]'s contribution to the field." 
In response, the Petitioner stated that "each of the letters provided by [the Petitioner] went into great and 
specific detail about his contributions and how they improved the chances of wastage of expensive I lrawmaterials that was [sic] instrumental in providing Ito the patients at a 
2 The letters are not only identical with regard to technical details but even in statements such as "Beyond that, as an ex­
colleague, I have to say that his senseofhumor and good nature make long nights and tough deadlines much easier." 
3 Another shared characteristic of many of the letters is an unusually high number of grammatical errors and anomalous 
capitalizations, suchasthose seen in the examples quoted above. 
4 
reasonable cost." The letters indicate that the Petitioner made useful contributions relating to the I I supply chain, but in the absence of other documentation he has not shown the major 
significance of those contributions. 
New letters, from some of the same individuals who signed earlier letters, include the assertion that the 
Petitioner optimized supply chain processes in a way that reduced waste and saved clients millions of 
dollars. While the letters and accompanying documents provide some technical details, they lack context 
to show that the Petitioner's efforts have been not only useful for clients and profitable for his employers, 
but of major significance in the field. An official ofl I asserts that the Petitioner's work "is a gift 
to the whole industry" that have "impacted the industry at large," but the record does not show that the 
Petitioner's work has "provoked widespread commentary" within the industry. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 appendix,https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
substantiate claims of this nature. 
In addition to new letters, the Petitioner cited contracts and licenses as "objective and documentary 
evidence thatthe solutions developed by [ the Petitioner] are original contribution[ s] of major significance 
in the field." Those documents show that the Petitioner's work has been of use to customers, but the 
Petitioner has not established that such licenses and contracts are only seen in thel I industry 
with respect to original contributions of major significance. Letters indicate that some of the Petitioner's 
work is now proprietary for individual clients, which is not readily consistent with claims that his work 
has resulted in industry-wide improvements or savings. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has performed work for high-profile clients, but the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to establish that his original contributions on behalf of those clients are of 
major significance in the field,recognized beyond those whohavetaught, employed, or worked with him. 
The Petitioner has described his work in dense technical detail, but implementation of his work, even by 
major manufacturers, does not inherently indicate major significance; the Petitioner has not established 
that his contributions to the pharmaceutical industry have major significance. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director concluded, without further comment, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. As 
explained below, we disagree. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
Second, we determine whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which 
the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. The relative size or 
longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered 
5 
together with other infonnation to determine whether a distinguished reputation exists. Merriam-
Webster' s online dictionary defines distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence 
or befitting an eminent person.4 Id. 
The Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion through "Speaker Engagements and Invitations as [an] 
Expert," and through his work for his current employer. The speaking engagements described in the 
record were one-time engagements, such as a lecture at a "department technical fest" at the I Institute 
of Engineering Science and Technology and a monthly meeting of a local chapter of the Project 
Management Institute. The Petitioner did not establish that these short-term guest engagements amounted 
to leading or critical roles for the hosting organizations. Individual events such as conventions are not, 
themselves, organizations or establishments. 
Regarding his work for his employer, the Petitioner stated that his "important and indispensable" work as 
architect ofl I roducts "has directly impacted! I [sic] revenue growth by 8%." 
Company officials attested to the Petitioner's critical role with the company. 
But the Petitioner has notestablishedl ldistinguished reputation. The company's chief executive 
officer stated: "Our innovation has been recognized by respected external analysts such as I I who 
named us a I lin 2019. We have also been featured as a thought 
leader in Silicon Review and Manufacturing Technology Insights magazine." 
The Petitioner submitted a report froml I entitled _______________ 
______ The report names I as one of "four vendors [that] offer a diverse range of 
value propositions that make impacts across different industries and domains across the supply chain." 
Every page of the printout is marked: "This research note is restricted to the personal use of" I 
chief executive officer. These proprietary markings appear to indicate that the report is not widely 
circulated or available to the public. The Petitioner has not demonstrated thatl I inclusion in this 
report indicates a distinguished reputation. 
c==Jwas the subject of a cover story in The Silicon Review and named a _________ by Manu by Manufacturing Technology Insights, as one of" 10 companies that are at the forefront of 
providing Smart Factory solutions and impacting the industry," but the record does not shed further light 
on these publications, their own reputations, or the manner in whichl lwas selected for inclusion. 
The Petitioner did not provide background evidence about The Silicon Review and Manufacturing 
Technology Insights to establish the significance of the coverage and recognition described above. As a 
result, the Petitioner has not established that those entities engage in objective journalism rather than 
promotion and marketing. The Silicon Review story, published without a byline, appears to be 
promotional in nature. The image of what appears to be an undated magazine cover includes the legend 
This phrase could be either a 
headline or an advertising slogan. 
4 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary /distinguished. 
6 
The Petitioner submitted an IRS Form 6765, Credit for Increasing Research Activities, filed with the 
company's 2020 income tax return. The Petitioner states that this document shows thatl has 
been recognized as a research-based company qualified for R&D tax credit." The Petitioner does not 
explain how this tax credit is evidence of a distinguished reputation, rather than a reflection that the 
company engages in research and development. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted that he had also perfmmed in leading and critical roles for and and ______ The Petitioner cites a newly-submitted letter and previously submitted 
documents, such as performance awards. The Petitioner asserts, for instance, that his '"techno-functional 
specification documents ... establish that he indeed played a significant role in developing the solutions 
which were implemented byl I clients at a large scale in their plants across the world." 
The materials establish that the Petitioner helped individual projects ome to successful completion, but 
these projects were not, themselves, divisions or departments o or 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's reputation 
appears to be largely confined to his employers and collaborators. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 29, 2024 In Re: 34771665 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met three ofthe claimed evidentiary criteria relating to judging 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions ofmajor significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 1 However, the Director concluded 
the Petitioner did not show he garnered sustained national or international acclaim and his 
achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating he is one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 3 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
1 The Director's decision simply indicates the Petitioner's satisfaction of these three criteria without explaining his 
determination. Although the record shows the Petitioner's experience in peer reviewing a journal article and authoring 
scholarly articles in professional publications, thereby meeting the judging and scholarly articles criteria, the record does 
not reflect his achievement of making original contributions of major significance in the field. Again, the Director did not 
explain, including identifying the evidence, which original contributions the Petitioner made and how he determined them 
to be majorly significant. While we do not concur with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled at least three criteria, we 
will evaluate the totality of the evidence since the Director conducted a final merits determination, including the 
documentation relating to the original contributions of major significance criterion. 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that such acclaim must be 
maintained and providing Black's Law Dictiona1y 's definition of "sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a 
long period of time ... To persist in making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to detennine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
2 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner has not established his eligibility.4 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his "publication and citation record show that he has extraordinary 
ability in the field of astrophysics and he is one of the small percentage of scientists who have risen to 
the top of their field." He contends that the Director did not properly evaluate evidence in the record, 
and that this evidence establishes that he qualifies under this immigrant visa classification's high 
standards. The Petitioner states that the Director did not properly analyze his peer review service, 
research contributions, co-authorship of scientific articles, citation evidence, letters of support, and 
sustained acclaim in astrophysics. Below, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence based on the 
documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits determination. 5 
On the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner provided the following 
information: 
Part 5 -Additional Information About the Petitioner 
Section 11. Occupation: Astrophysicist 
Part 6 -Basic Information About the Proposed Employment 
Section 1. Job Title: Data Scientist 
Section 3. Nontechnical Description of Job: Collect and analyze data to elucidate the 
properties and evolution of stellar clusters in the Milky Way and local group galaxies 
to explain the mechanisms behind galaxy formation and evolution. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's background, according to the initial cover letter: 
[The Petitioner] is an established expert in astrophysics, and within this broader field, 
he is one of the few leading specialists in the star formation history of the Milky Way 
and the Local Group, chemical evolution of stellar clusters, and cluster ensemble 
photometry. [The Petitioner] has achieved a consistent and notable record of success 
and influence in this area of study and is especially well-known for his investigation of 
the enhancement of stellar chemical abundance measurements. Furthermore, [the 
Petitioner's] work has received fonding from prestigious organizations, including the 
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the Crafoord Foundation, the Office of Science, the 
National Science Foundation (NSF), the Olle Engkvist Foundation, the Research 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
4 In the final merits analysis. the Director's decision discussed the documentation relating to the Petitioner's peer review 
activity, published work, citation evidence, graduate student research position at and letters of support commenting 
on his astrophysics research, and explained why that evidence, as part of the entirety of the record, was insufficient to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
3 
Corporation for Science Advancement (RCSA), the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA), and the Heising-Simmons Foundation. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner earned both a Master of Science degree (2020) anda Ph.D. 
(2021) in Physics from He served as a graduate researcher at under the 
supervision of Dr. from August 2016 until August 2021. The Petitioner has been 
employed at as a a data scientist since graduating from in August 2021. 6 
As discussed further below, the Petitioner has performed astrophysics research as a graduate student 
at coauthored several research articles that have been widely cited, and peer reviewed one article 
for Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. However, in considering the totality of the 
evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his achievements are reflective of a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Nor has the Petitioner shown that he has sustained acclaim as astrophysics researcher after his 
graduation from in August 2021. 7 Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that he has risen 
to that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and garnered national or international 
acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be 
set for aliens ofextraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented a career that meets these 
very high standards. 
Regarding the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner 
provided one instance of his judging experience - a paper review for Monthly Notices of the Royal 
Astronomical Society in 2023. 8 Here, the Petitioner has not established that this single instance of 
peer review work contributes to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 
59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
With the appeal, the Petitioner provides information from Oxford Academic regarding the editorial 
review process for Monthly Notices ofthe Royal Astronomical Society. This information states: 
6 The Petitioner describes his work at las follows: "I build, maintain, and improve key decision 
systems and predictive models that are keyto competitive advantage. I explore new data sources. 
both internal and external to I to improve and optimize model performance. Additionally, I read, research. 
design, and implement novel machine learning algorithms, technologies, and processes to better serve the customer and 
stay ahead of the competition." 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (instructing that USCTS officers should determine if "the person 
continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of expertise since the person was originally afforded that 
recognition. A person may, for example. have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter."). The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his position with a leasing 
company since August 2021 is consistent with him having sustained acclaim in the field of astrophysics. 
8 In many scientific and academic fields, peer review is a routine part of the process through which articles are selected for 
publication or presentation at conferences. Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate 
national or international acclaim or place an individual at the very top of their field. 
4 
Manuscripts submitted MNRAS undergo editorial review by the Royal Astronomical 
Society, via a process of scholarly peer review. Each paper is assessed by a Scientific 
Editor ( a member of the editorial board), who in most cases will solicit the opinion of 
two or more expert reviewers ( also called referees). Reviewers critically examine the 
content of the paper and make recommendations on its suitability for publication. The 
Scientific Editor will then decide whether or not to endorse the reviewer's 
recommendations, and may request revisions or accept or reject the paper. 
Although the Petitioner's role as a reviewer involved making "recommendations" on the paper's 
suitability for publication, it is the Scientific Editor, a member of the journal's editorial board, who 
decides whether to endorse a reviewer's recommendations and who therefore ultimately determines if 
a paper is accepted or rejected. At issue here is the extent to which the Petitioner's review activity is 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or a level of expertise placing him 
among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. Here, the Petitioner did not present 
documentation indicating Monthly Notices ofthe Royal Astronomical Society's specific requirements 
for selection of peer reviewers. For instance, reviewing manuscripts for a journal that selects its 
reviewers based on subject matter expertise would not provide strong support for the petition, because 
possessing expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than having sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of the field. 
While the record indicates that the Petitioner has reviewed one paper for Monthly Notices ofthe Royal 
Astronomical Society, he has not demonstrated, for example, how his limited experience in reviewing 
the works of others compares to others at the very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his peer review work. 
Moreover, serving as a peer reviewer does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top ofhis field. Matter 
ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (stating that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). Without evidence 
that differentiates the Petitioner from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent 
history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, he has not shown that his 
narrow judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. 9 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place an individual at the top of their field. 
The Petitioner indicated that he has published "his work in 7 peer reviewed journal articles (1 of them 
first-authored) and 1 abstract," including The Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series, The 
Astronomical Journal, and The Astrophysical Journal. 10 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
9 For example, the record does not include documentation that sets the Petitioner apart from others in the field, such as 
evidence that he has completed reviews for a substantial number of distinguished journals or conferences relative to others 
in his field, served in editorial positions for highly regarded journals or publications, or chaired prominent evaluation 
committees for reputable scientific conferences. 
10 The Petitioner presented rankings information for these journals from Google Scholar Metrics and journal impact factor 
data from IOPscience. A high journal ranking or impact factor is reflective of a publication's overall citation rate. It does 
not, however, show the influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has affected their 
field. 
5 
I that his publication record is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or 
international acclaim, and being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not show the significance of his authorships or how his publication record compares to 
other individuals who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 11 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that the Petitioner's publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. In response to the Director's request for evidence, 
the Petitioner submitted his Google Scholar profile which lists his research articles and indicates that 
they had received 2,159 cumulative citations. This Google Scholar information indicated that his 
articles. entitled I 
I (2020), I 
(2022), I 
I (2020), I 
I (2020), I 
1(2021), and I 
I (2020), each received 1235, 501, 387, 26, 9, and 1 citation( s ), respectively. None of his 
remaining articles, including his abstract from the I IMeeting, have 
received any citations. 
In the decision denying the petition, the Director stated that "ofthe six articles listed that have received 
citations, none have fewer than thirteen listed authors, and the two most cited articles list well over 
one-hundred authors and account for over eighty percent of all citations in the record." The Director 
further noted that "the third most cited article lists the Petitioner as twenty-second of twenty-three 
authors and accounts for over seventeen percent of all citations in the record." We agree with the 
Director's conclusion that the record lacks evidence showing that the Petitioner has enjoyed sustained 
national or international claim as a result his level of contribution to these articles. 12 The Petitioner 
has not shown that his specific contribution to these articles as one ofnumerous coauthors has attracted 
a level of interest in the field indicative of him earning national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not established that his role as a coauthor has 
garnered him attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of 
his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
11 See 6 users Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing examples where evidence in the record may help in 
determining "whether in a totality analysis that considers all of the evidence, the person is among the small percentage at 
the top of the field and has sustained national or international acclaim"). 
12 The fourth most cited article (26 citations), entitled 
was first authored by the Petitioner. See 6 users Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (indicating that there may be 
particular prestige or acclaim associated with publication in highly ranked journals, "especially if the person is the most 
significant contributor to the published article, a senior author, or the sole author of the article." Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown that his specific contribution to any of the three most-cited articles he coauthored was particularly significant. 
6 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not show that his presented material at the 
Meeting (2022) garnered him any national or international acclaim in the field. 13 See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of his 
presentation or how it impacted the field consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner 
to submit more extensive documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
The Petitioner also provided data from Clarivate Analytics (InCites Essential Science Indicators) 
regarding baseline citation rates and percentiles by year ofpublication for the space science field. The 
Petitioner contends that three of his "published papers have received enough citations to rank among 
the top 0.1 % of the most-cited papers in space science in their respective years of publication," but 
based on their large number of coauthors, he has not shown that his specific contribution to any of the 
three most-cited articles he coauthored was particularly significant. Additionally, the Petitioner 
presented an article in Scientometrics written by Lutz Bornmann and Werner Marx, entitled "How to 
evaluate individual researchers working in the natural and life sciences meaningfully? A proposal of 
methods based on percentiles of citations." This article presents recommendations for "how to 
evaluate individual researchers in the natural and life sciences" for purposes of fonding and promotion 
or hiring decisions. The authors state that "publications which are among the 10% most cited 
publications in their subject area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that "the top 10% 
based excellence indicator" should be given "the highest weight when comparing the scientific 
performance of single researchers." While the authors offer proposed methods for bibliometric 
analysis of research performance, the record does not indicate that their methods have been accepted 
and implemented by the academic community. Moreover, with respect to citation information from 
Google Scholar, the authors advise against "using Google Scholar (GS) as a basis for bibliometric 
analysis. Several studies have pointed out that GS has numerous deficiencies for research evaluation." 
Additionally, the Petitioner submitted examples of some of the research articles, including 
international articles, which cited to his work. For instance, an article authored b et. aet. al., entitled 
cites to the 
~-----------------------------------~ This
article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's work from the more than 80 other papers 
referenced in the article or otherwise demonstrate that his work places him among that small 
percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has not established 
how citations of this kind translate into national or international acclaim. Additional research article 
examples presented by the Petitioner generally discuss the cited source articles in similar terms and 
there is no special emphasis on his specific work. The submitted articles acknowledge he and his 
coauthors contributions to the advancement of what appears to be an active field of research but are 
not indications that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his 
field. l
The research articles coauthored by the Petitioner indicate in their acknowledgements section that the 
authors received support from organizations such as the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the Crafoord 
13 This presentation was coauthored with Dr. and five others and has not received any citations. 
7 
Foundation, the Office of Science, the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Olle Engkvist 
Foundation, the Research Corporation for Science Advancement (RCSA), the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration (NASA), and the Heising-Simmons Foundation. We note that scientific 
research projects are typically supported by grants from a variety of public and private sources. The 
past achievements of the principal investigator are a factor in grant proposals because the funding 
institution must be assured that the investigator is capable of performing the proposed research. Here, 
the Petitioner has not provided copies of the research grants from the aforementioned organizations 
listing him as a principal investigator or otherwise identifying his role. Regardless, he has not shown 
that his participation in these research projects as a graduate student signifies sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided several recommendation letters that summarized his work. 14 For 
example, regarding his work at Dr. I I the Petitioner's Ph.D. supervisor and an 
associate professor at D stated that he "has helped uncover the information encoded in integrated 
light from star clusters in the Milky Way and neighboring galaxies." Dr.I I further asserted 
that the Petitioner's research is "paving the way to publish a catalog of light curves for 348 stellar 
clusters in these galaxies," but she did not provide specific examples indicating that his specific work 
is majorly significant in the field or has otherwise risen to the level ofa contribution that is nationally or 
internationally acclaimed. 
Dr.I lan assistant professor at the indicated that the Petitioner's work 
"shed light on the varying chemical abundances of stars in the APOGEE survey and enhance the 
reliability of its data, providing fellow researchers in the field with more reliable information for their 
research," but the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his specific work has affected the field in a 
substantial way that is indicative of national or international acclaim at the very top of field of 
astrophysics. We recognize that research must add information to the pool ofknowledge in some way 
in order to be accepted for publication, presentation, funding, or academic credit, but not every 
research finding that broadens knowledge in a particular field renders an individual's work nationally 
or internationally acclaimed. 
In addition, Dr.I I Professor of Astronomy at __________ and coauthor 
of multiple papers with the Petitioner, asserted that the Petitioner's work helped to improve the 
APOGEE survey data "uncertainty estimation approach and expand it to the entire 16th data release. 
The resulting approach is utilized throughout the three articles as a key method for cleaning, validating, 
and ensuring the reliability of the data." Dr. I I further indicated that the Petitioner's "efforts 
have helped to ensure simpler, broader access to this valuable astronomical data." While we 
acknowledge that Petitioner's work has been used by others and has affected his field to some extent, 
he has not shown that his specific methods and findings rise to the level of contributions of major 
significance in the astrophysics field or have otherwise affected the field at a level commensurate with 
national or international acclaim at the very top of the field. 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation, nor does the record include adequate corroborating evidence, to show that he is viewed 
by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very 
14 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner has not established 
that he has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of 
acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The letters describe the Petitioner's work 
without showing how it has resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant 
attention from the greater field, or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). 
After consideration of the totality of the evidence, including the Petitioner's published research, 
citation record, peer review service, and research funding, as well as the opinions of his colleagues in 
the field, we conclude that this documentation does not sufficiently establish his sustained national or 
international acclaim or show that he is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. Nor does the Petitioner's evidence demonstrate that he has sustained acclaim in 
the field ofastrophysics since his graduation from Din August 2021. 15 The Petitioner has not shown 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to 
demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
15 The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his position with a leasing company since August 2021 is consistent with having 
maintained his acclaim in the field of astrophysics. 
9 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 29, 2024 In Re: 33898673 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a pole fitness performer in the area of pole and arial sport who seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) after issuing a notice of intent to deny (NOID). The Director concluded the Petitioner did 
not show that the totality of the evidence demonstrated her eligibility in a final merits determination. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an accomplished pole fitness performer who will continue to perform in her sport as 
well as teaching. 
We begin noting an issue the Petitioner raises on appeal. The Petitioner noted the Director's decision 
characterized her as a pole dancer instead of a pole fitness performer. Although we agree the Director 
utilized that phrase, we observe that they treated her as a performer and an athletic competitor within 
their analysis. 
Now to the procedure that occurred before the Director, and this issue will be determinative of our 
appellate decision. The Petitioner filed the petition discussing how her evidence fit into each of the 
regulatory criteria. The Director issued the NOID indicating she met three of the criteria, to include 
the prizes or awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Also within the NOID and under the final 
merits analysis, the Director discussed how the Petitioner's claims and evidence under the regulatory 
topical areas ( awards, judging, display ofher work, and contributions to the field) did not demonstrate 
her sustained national or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. 
When the Petitioner responded to the NOTD, she did not present her claims and evidence oriented 
towards the regulatory topical areas the Director laid out in the NOID. Instead, she organized the 
response into three large areas: 
(1) She will continue to work in her field of expertise in the United States; 
(2) She offered other approved administrative cases she felt contained similar fact patterns to 
her case meaning her case should also be approved; and 
(3) She included "additional evidence of sustained national or international acclaim showing 
that [she] is at the top of her field of endeavor . . . . [ and] her achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, including that [she] is one ofthat small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
2 
In the Director's denial, they noted the Petitioner, through her representative, submitted evidence 
without addressing which regulatory topical area the evidence applied to. The Director further noted 
that provided they offer a reasoned consideration of the overall filing, they are not required to address 
every claim or every piece of evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner notes that the evidence she submitted in response to the NOID should be 
counted towards the final merits analysis. We agree that a final merits determination should consider 
the petition in its entirety to determine eligibility. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
But for the agency to be able to make such a consideration, it is the Petitioner's responsibility to inform 
USCIS how her claims and evidence satisfy which eligibility requirements. Nolasco-Amaya v. 
Garland, 14 F.4th at 1012-13; Spear Mktg., Inc. v. BancorpSouth Bank, 791 F.3d 586,599 (5th Cir. 
2015); S.E.C. v. Thomas, 965 F.2d 825, 827 (10th Cir. 1992); see also Harolds Stores, Inc. v. Dillard 
Dep 't Stores, Inc., 82 F.3d 1533, 1540 n.3 (10th Cir. 1996) (concluding that where the evidence in the 
record is voluminous, it is imperative that an appellant provide specific references to record); Uli v. 
Mukasey, 533 F.3d 950, 957 (8th Cir. 2008) ( citing to Matter ofD-I-M-, 24 I&N Dec. 448, 451 (BIA 
2008) and noting when a case includes voluminous background materials, it is necessary to specifically 
identify the material one relies on to come to their conclusion). The trnth is to be determined not by 
the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 376 ( citing Matter ofE-M-, 
20 I&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
A petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial burden of production, as well as the ultimate 
burden ofpersuasion. Matter ofY-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 n.3 (BIA 1998); also see the definition 
of burden of proof from Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (reflecting the burden of proof 
includes both the burden of production and the burden of persuasion). First, a petitioner must satisfy 
the burden ofproduction. As the term suggests, this burden requires a filing party to produce evidence 
in the form ofdocuments, testimony, etc. that adheres to the governing statutory, regulatory, and policy 
provisions sufficient to have the issue decided on the merits. 
Second, a petitioner must satisfy the burden of persuasion, meaning they must establish the degree to 
which their arguments and evidence should persuade or convince USCIS that the requisite eligibility 
parameters have been met (i.e., the obligation to persuade the trier of fact ofthe trnth of a proposition). 
Dir., Office ofWorkers' Comp. Programs, Dep 't ofLabor v. Greenwich Collieries, 512 U.S. 267,274 
(1994). The level at which petitioners must persuade in the present context is the preponderance of 
the evidence. Whether a petitioner is able to show that a particular fact or event is more likely than 
not to occur is the determinant of whether they have met the preponderance of the evidence standard 
of proof. 
But in the present case, the Petitioner has not satisfied her burden. When she filed a 26-page NOID 
response and hundreds of pages of evidence, it was her duty to inform USCIS of how that submission 
adhered to the governing statutory, regulatory, and policy provisions. And the failure to meet that 
burden means the Director was correct, as they would have been forced to guess at how she was 
eligible and that would not be proper. Bronner on BehalfofAm. Stud. Ass 'n v. Duggan, 962 F.3d 596, 
611 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (citing Schneider v. Kissinger, 412 F.3d 190, 200 n.1 (D.C. Cir. 2005); Sierra 
Club v. EPA, 925 F.3d 490,496 (D.C. Cir. 2019)). The filing party has an obligation to spell out its 
3 
arguments squarely and distinctly. Schneider, 412 F.3d at 200 n.1. Before the Director, the Petitioner 
did not meet that obligation. Even though the Petitioner has received an adverse determination on the 
issue ofher NOID response, that does not preclude her from filing a new petition and informing USCIS 
of how those same claims and evidence should apply to the extraordinary ability classification's 
requirements. 
We now tum from our discussion on procedure, to the merits of one of the Petitioner's claims. 
Regarding the Petitioner's awards, the Director indicated the evidence satisfied the criterion's 
requirements during the antecedent step, but in the final merits determination used language conveying 
the evidence did not meet the criterion's requirements. We agree with the Director's determination in 
the final merits analysis that the record does not contain evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's 
eligibility under that criterion. This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must 
be met to satisfy the regulation. According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must 
establish: (1) the foreign national is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are 
nationally or internationally recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. 
Although some of the competitions in which the Petitioner claims she received a prize or an award 
bear the word "National" within the competition's title, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to 
establish that these competitions are nationally or internationally recognized. Even if the Petitioner 
were to establish the competitions are nationally or internationally recognized, this level of 
acknowledgement does not automatically impute such recognition to their prizes or awards. A prize 
or an award does not categorically garner national or international recognition from the competition 
in which it is awarded, nor is it automatically derived from the individual or group that issued the 
award. Rather, national and international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in 
the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. USCIS policy speaks to this issue stating: 
Examples of qualifying awards may include, but are not limited to: 
• Certain awards from well-known national institutions or well-known professional 
associations. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l). We highlight two important qualifiers within 
that bullet point: (1) certain awards; and (2) well-known. 
Regarding the Policy Manual's phrase "certain awards," the top prize or top award from a 
"well-known" nationally or internationally recognized competition or institution, in some cases, could 
result in adequate recognition to satisfy this criterion's requirements. But the record must contain 
probative evidence demonstrating the level at which the competition or institution is recognized in the 
field, and that evidence should establish the level at which the competition or institution is 
"well-known." This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example but not limited 
to, national- or international-level media coverage. 
Additionally, unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient 
evidence that a particular prize or award-or a competition or institution-is nationally or 
internationally recognized. Sufficiently probative evidence that a prize, award, competition, or 
4 
institution is nationally or internationally recognized is generally material from sources besides the 
issuing entity. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 183 (D.N.J. 2021). Because the record lacks 
such evidence, we withdraw the Director's favorable determination under the regulatory criteria (at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)) and we agree with their adverse conclusion about this criterion in the final 
merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because we withdrew the Director's determination regarding the prizes or awards criterion, the 
Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Because of that and the procedural shortcomings 
we detail above, we do not need to provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 30, 2024 In Re: 34569492 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a management consulting firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Beneficiary 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not show the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined the Beneficiary met three of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the 
Director concluded the Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in the field of endeavor, 
demonstrating he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues the Beneficiary satisfies three additional criteria, and the evidence in 
the aggregate establishes the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Because the Petitioner has already shown the Beneficiary fulfills the minimum requirements of at least 
three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence based on the documentation presented to 
the Director in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, 2 he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and his achievements have been recognized in the 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
2 
field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we 
determine the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects the Beneficiary received a bachelor's degree in electronics and communication 
engineering from _____________ in 2010. According to the Beneficiary's 
resume, the Beneficiary has been employed by the Petitioner as a director and associate partner since 
2018 and previously worked for as a director and chief architect and strategist from 2013 -
2018 and ________ as a senior enterprise architect from 2011 -2013. As discussed 
further below, the Beneficiary has served on committees, conducted review work, made contributions 
to his employers, authored material, performed in authoritative roles, and earned salaries for his work. 
However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary has risen to that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary enjoys a career that meets 
this very high standard. 
The Petitioner presented evidence ofthe Beneficiary's recent membership on an evaluation committee 
forl 4 However, the Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary's 
service resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects "that small percentage who 
[has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary received national or international recognition based on his membership or service with 
this committee. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary distinguished himself 
from others in the field based on his I Iservice, gaining national or international attention or 
placing him among the upper echelon in his field. Although the Petitioner points to Y-L-, who serves 
on the selection committee for I Iand indicates he "is well known and pioneer," the issue is 
whether the Beneficiary garnered national or international acclaim rather than the reputation of his co­
workers or "many other established leaders in the industry."5 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to detennine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
4 Initially, the Petitioner also claimed the Beneficiary "was invited to join and participated as a member on the evaluation 
committee for the I I industry forl I 2013." Although the Petitioner 
provided an invitation email, the Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary actually attended and participated at the event. 
5 See R-S-letter. In fact, based on the evidence provided about Y-L-, the record reflects that Y-L-'s accomplishments and 
achievements are at a significantly. considerably higher level than the Beneficiary. 
3 
Similarly, regarding the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 
Besides the Beneficiary's evaluation committee experience, the Petitioner submitted evidence of the 
Beneficiary's instance ofreviewing chapters for a book in 2013. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary's judging instances contributed to a finding that the Beneficiary has a career of 
acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's recent experience serving on an 
evaluation committee and reviewing book chapters over 10 years ago compares to others at the very 
top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered 
wide attention from the field based on his evaluation work. Moreover, serving as a committee 
evaluator or book reviewer does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary 
ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (stating that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). Without evidence that sets the 
Beneficiary apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history ofreviewing 
or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's narrow judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. The record 
reflects the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored one article in 2019. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary's publication record is consistent with 
having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or international acclaim, and being among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of the 
Beneficiary's authorship or how his publication record of a single article compares to others who are 
viewed to be at the very top of the field. 6 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publication has had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have 
been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate 
pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although the Petitioner provided evidence of some citations 
of his article, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance or relevance of having been cited 76 
times. 7 For instance, the Petitioner did not compare the Beneficiary's numbers to those among the 
very top of the field or to show the Beneficiary's work received a level of interest in the field 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing that an example where evidence in the record may help in 
determining whether in a totality analysis that considers all of the evidence, the person is among the small percentage at 
the top of the field and has sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (indicating that the petitioner must explain the significance of the 
submitted evidence, and how it demonstrates that the person has achieved sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognition in their field of expertise). 
4 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 8 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's metrics represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided an invitation email for the Beneficiary to speak at 
_______ 2023 without showing that the Beneficiary actually participated or spoke at the 
event. Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary's purported speaking engagement 
garnered any national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of the Beneficiary's purported presentation or how it 
impacted the field consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to submit more 
extensive documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. In 
fact, the Petitioner presented two identical articles reporting on the event without any mention of the 
Beneficiary or his presentation. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided several recommendation letters, including letters from the 
Petitioner, praising the Beneficiary and his work, especially his involvement with the I I 
methodology. For instance, D-K-S-stated thatl !yielded remarkable results" and 
"has since been adopted as an industry standard for in-place core modernization, not only in the US 
but also in APAC and ANZ regions."9 However, they do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, among the 
upper echelon or that he has garnered recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with 
being among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Moreover, although the 
letters indicate the Beneficiary has made an impactful contribution in the field, they do not reflect a 
career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Likewise, the letters do not 
establish his roles with the Petitioner,! Ior any other organization 
resulted in widespread acclaim from the field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, 
or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although the Petitioner documented the Beneficiary's salary, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's 
wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not demonstrate, for example, how the 
Beneficiary's salary as a partner in a management consulting firm compared to others at the very top 
of the field or other renowned partners, or that the Beneficiary received notoriety or attention based 
on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 10 
8 We note that Y-L-has garnered at least 354,653 cumulative citations, including his highest cited article of79,354, 
compared to the Beneficiary's 76. 
9 Although we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered the approximately dozen other recommendation 
letters in the record. 
10 The Petitioner compared the Beneficiary's salary as a partner to management consultants rather than to other partners. 
5 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 11 Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 
2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that 
"arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a 
baseball coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the Beneficiary's work 
is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career 
ofacclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that while a person may be stronger in one particular 
evidentiary area than in others, the totality of the evidence must establish that the person in extraordinary). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 30, 2024 In Re: 33359506 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marketing analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The Director also entered a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against 
the Petitioner. The Director denied a subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider, determining that 
the Petitioner did not meet the filing requirements to either reopen or reconsider the decision. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). A finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact requires the following 
elements: the individual procured or sought to procure a benefit under U.S. immigration laws; the 
individual made a false representation; the false representation was willfully made and material to the 
benefit sought; and the false representation was made to a U.S. government official. See generally 8 
USCIS Policy Manual J.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual; see also Matter ofKai Hing Hui, 
15 I&N Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 197 5). A finding of willful misrepresentation in a visa petition may 
be considered in any future proceeding to determine that a noncitizen is inadmissible to the United 
States. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and general manager of a marketing consultancy company in China, 
where he claims to have developed the theory of "value chain marketing" and to have published two 
books in the field of marketing. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the criteria he claimed 
to have satisfied: performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments having 
a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the Director concluded the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence sufficient to establish that he met the following criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3): (iii), published material about the Petitioner; (iv), judging the work of others 
in the Petitioner's field; (v), original contributions ofmajor significance to the field; or (vi), authorship 
of scholarly articles in the field. The Director further concluded, without explanation, that the 
Petitioner had willfully misrepresented himself to procure a U.S. immigration benefit. 
In a motion to reopen and reconsider, the Petitioner stated that he met the claimed criteria, asserting 
the Director did not consider all of the submitted evidence and that novel requirements were imposed 
in the Director's decision. The Petitioner also submitted new evidence in support ofhis eligibility and 
pointed to the fact that he was not afforded an opportunity to rebut the Director's conclusion that he 
had misrepresented himself. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the Director did not identify what 
factors led to the finding of misrepresentation, adding that the Director also did not provide analysis 
of his arguments on motion. 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director's decision dismissing the 
motion to reopen and reconsider lacked a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted and did not fully 
explain the reasons for the unfavorable conclusions. The Director's decision does not fully analyze 
2 
the evidence submitted on motion, nor does it address the Petitioner's assertions regarding the 
misrepresentation finding. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Accordingly, we 
find that the Petitioner was not adequately informed of the Director's reasons for determining that none 
of the material submitted in support of the four criteria satisfy the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (v), or (vi). We also agree with the Petitioner's assertion that he was not properly 
afforded an opportunity to rebut the Director's conclusion that he had misrepresented himself. See 8 
C.F.R. §103.2(b)(16)(i). 
We note that the Director's decision denying the petition similarly lacked a detailed analysis of the 
evidence submitted and did not fully explain the reasons for the unfavorable conclusions. We also 
note that, in denying the petition, the Director made general references to fraud and misrepresentation 
but did not discuss or identify any specific evidence or provide any explanation regarding the 
determination that the Petitioner misrepresented himself or was otherwise engaged in fraud. 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director for further consideration and issuance of a new 
decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT 30, 2024 In Re: 34894441 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a project manager who wants to make eco-friendly products in the United States, seeks 
classification under the employment-based, first-preference immigrant visa category as a noncitizen 
with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document their 
achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal and following motion to reopen. See In Re: 31839590 (AAO July 3, 2024). We affirmed the 
Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's proof met none of the requested category's ten initial 
evidentiary requirements -three less than required for a final merits determination . Id. 
The matter returns to us on a second motion to reopen. The Petitioner bears the burden of 
demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we conclude that his new proof does 
not satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria. We will therefore dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts, supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
Our review on motion is limited to our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii) (referencing "the 
prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding"). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 
464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring new evidence to potentially change the case's outcome) . 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner submits a copy of a 2017 letter from a Russian gold mining company. In part, the letter 
recognizes the Petitioner for his work in helping to set up the company's "booth" at an international 
economic forum. The letter praises his "individual approach to each member, creative approach to 
accomplishment of assignments and prompt response to requests." 
The Petitioner does not specify which evidentiary criteria he believes the letter meets or helps to meet. 
But the letter does not satisfy, or help to satisfy, any of the following requirements he previously 
claimed to have met: 
A. Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [ non citizen]' s receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The letter from the gold mining company does not establish the Petitioner's receipt ofa prize or award. 
The letter praises the Petitioner's work. But the letter does not state his receipt of a prize or constitute 
an award. See Guida v. Miller, No. 20-cv-01471-LB, 2021 WL 568850, *8 (N.D. Cal. Feb. 16, 2021) 
( ( affirming USCIS' finding that evidence of a petitioner's team placing fifth or ninth in a competition 
or qualifying to compete in another event was not evidence of "awards"). 
Also, the Petitioner has not established that he received the letter for excellence in his field. The record 
does not explain how helping a mining company establish its booth at an economic forum relates to 
his stated field ofecology. See Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F.Supp.3d 168, 183-84 (D.N.J. 2021) (holding 
that an award honoring a filmmaker for promoting human rights does not constitute an award for 
excellence in their field). 
Further, the letter from the gold mining company does not otherwise help the Petitioner to meet this 
criterion. He previously submitted evidence of his receipt of a "certificate of merit" from a Russian 
ministry. The record does not indicate that the letter relates to the Petitioner's certificate. The letter 
therefore neither meets nor helps to meet this evidentiary criterion. 
B. Membership in Associations 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[ d]ocumentation ofthe [ noncitizen] 's membership 
in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements 
of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The letter from the gold mining company does not indicate the Petitioner's membership in an 
association. Also, the letter does not appear to relate to the organization in which he previously 
demonstrated his membership. The letter therefore does not meet or help to meet this evidentiary 
requirement. 
C. Remaining Issues 
The motion's 
evidence does not satisfy two of the four criteria that the Petitioner has claimed. Thus, 
he cannot meet three evidentiary criteria, as required for a final merits determination. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We therefore reserve consideration ofwhether the letter from the gold mining company 
meets the evidentiary criteria regarding published material about him and original contributions of 
major significance. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v); see also INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 
2 
( 1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their 
ultimate decisions). 
The remainder of the Petitioner's motion to reopen discusses evidence already ofrecord. Contrary to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), this portion of the motion does not state "new facts." Thus, it does not meet 
regulatory requirements for motions to reopen, and we will not consider it. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23378972 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 31, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classificationmakesimmigrantvisas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not: (1) satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which requires 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria; or (2) established that he would work in his area of expertise. We determined that 
the Director was correct overall in concluding that the petition did not warrant approval, andwe 
therefore dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and four subsequent motions. The matter is now before us 
on a fifth motion, this time a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 1 Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-
76. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determina tion and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(l )(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must: ( 1) state the new facts 
to be provided in the reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary 
evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence eligibility for the requested 
benefit. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's fourth motion, we determined that the 
Petitioner made the same assertions and submitted a brief whose content was nearly identical to the 
one provided in support of the prior third motion. As such, we concluded that the Petitioner offered 
no cogent argument to demonstrate that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our prior 
decision where we dismissed the Petitioner's third motion because he did notmeetthe awards criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . Therefore , a 
final merits determination was not necessary since the Petitioner did not meet three of the initial ten 
required criteria. See Matter of 0-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision) . We also determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish that we erred in reserving a determination on his intent to continue to work 
in his area of expertise under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
As noted in our prior decision, the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior 
adverse decision. Accordingly , we will examine only new facts or arguments that pertain to our 
dismissal of the Petitioner 's fourth motion, which was a motion to reconsider. Thus, the issue before 
us is whether the Petitioner can establish that we incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing the 
prior motion to reconsider. 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief addressing the merits of his claimed 
eligibility for the extraordinary ability visa classification , thereby seeking adjudication of the original 
claims and evidence. However , the purpose of a motion is to address new facts or evidence in the case 
2 
of a motion to reopen and/or to address error in how the law or users policy was applied in the 
decision that immediately preceded the motion in a motion to reconsider. In this instance, our prior 
decision addressed the merits of a motion to reconsider the Petitioner's third motion. We concluded 
that the Petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied the law or users policy in our prior 
decision dismissing his third motion. Merely disagreeing with our conclusions without showing how 
we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a 
ground to reconsider our decision. 2 
Here, in the decision that immediately preceded this motion, we declined to re-adjudicate the merits 
of the Petitioner's eligibility claims, explaining that those claims, and evidence submitted in support 
thereof, had been previously addressed in a comprehensive appeal decision that thoroughly analyzed 
and explained why the indicated evidence and claimed arguments did not meet the regulatmy 
requirements. Although the Petitioner disagrees with our prior detennination regarding the merits of 
his eligibility, he offers no new facts nor establishes that our prior decision dismissing the motion to 
reconsider was incorrect as a matter oflaw or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his current motion meets the requirements for a motion to reopen under 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) or 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider under 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, we will dismiss 
the motion to reopen and reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen and reconsider is dismissed. 
2 "Motions for reopening immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing and 
motions fora newtrialon the basis ofnewly discovered evidence." INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314,323 (1992)(citingJNS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 2365160 6 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 31, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial three required evidentiary criteria. We agreed with the Director's decision 
and dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement(thatis , a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not"or"probably"true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec . at 375-
76. 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reopening orreconsideration , a petitioner must not only meetthe formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically , a motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must: (1) state the new facts 
to be provided in the reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary 
evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
had only satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria and likewise concluded that the Petitioner did 
not satisfy the three additional criteria he claimed relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards, original contributions of major significance in the field, and evidence 
that he had a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (v), (viii). In support of the current motion , the Petitioner 
offers new evidence and argues that he met at least three required evidentiary criteria, thus asserting 
he warrants a final merits determination . 
A. Motion to Reopen 
First, we will address the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen. In support of the criterion related 
to original contributions of major significance , the Petitioner provides a 2022 review article that was 
posted on es.rollingstone.com and reference letters from_ _ a a theater producer, 
writer, and director, and two musicians -I an 
With respect to the review in the online publication of the Rolling Stone, because the article was 
published in 2022, it does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing in 2021 and thus 
the 2021 time of filing precedes the 2022 publication date of the article. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
With respect to the three reference letters, we find that they offer information that is similar in content 
to the Petitioner 's prior submissions. As with the previously submitted reference letters, the new 
letters also discuss the Petitioner's musical work and claim that he has created a new musical genre. 
Although all three references discuss how the Petitioner has influenced their respective works-in the 
case of the impact resulted in a collaborative project with the Petitioner -the letters are 
not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's music constitutes "contribution s of major 
2 
significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As noted in our prior decision, 
evidence that the Petitioner's talents have been recognized is not sufficient to show that his work has 
been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
Accordingly, the new facts and evidence submitted in support of this motion do not establish that the 
Petitioner has shown a proper cause for reopening. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
Next, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reconsider. In doing so, we will address the three 
criteria that served as the basis for our appeal decision. 
First, we will discuss the original contributions criterion, which requires the Petitioner to establish that 
his musical work is both original and of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In support of the motion, the Petitioner contends that the major significance of the Petitioner's work 
"is intrinsically rooted" in its originality and uniqueness. 
Notwithstanding the Petitioner's argument, originality and major significance are two separate 
elements of the criterion in question. As stated above, the original contributions criterion focuses on 
two key elements: the originality of the Petitioner's work and the "major significance" of that work in 
the Petitioner's field. Establishing that the Petitioner's work is original and unique does not 
necessarily establish that it is also of major significance. As discussed above, the evidence submitted 
thus far, including the submissions on motion, shows that the Petitioner's work has had influence on 
individuals in the music and ente1iainment industry, but it does not establish that the impact of the 
Petitioner's music rises to the level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner urges us to 
consider the evidence "as a whole," arguing that the totality of the evidence establishes "the originality, 
significance and influence of his innovative, original and unique work." We find, however, that an 
analysis of this nature was conducted on appeal, where we considered and discussed specific 
submissions comprehensively. And while we acknowledged that the submitted evidence was "not 
without weight," we concluded that the evidence submitted for this criterion did not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the field. See Matter of 
Caronlnt'l, 19 I&NDec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
The Petitioner also asserts that his work has sustained national or international acclaim and points to 
his performance at the Stage as evidence of such acclaim. However, 
first we focus on whether the Petitioner has met three of the ten outlined criteria before turning to the 
question of sustained national or international acclaim in the final merits determination. The Petitioner 
has not established that our finding on appeal, that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, was 
inconsistent with the law or USCIS policy. Likewise, the Petitioner's attempt to reintroduce 
previously submitted evidence is not sufficient to meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
Such evidence was addressed in our prior decision and ultimately deemed insufficient for purposes of 
meeting the requirements of the original contributions criterion. Further, although the Petitioner 
questions the lack of evidentiary weight previously given to a licensing agreement that we dismissed 
in a footnote, he does not dispute the fact that the licensing agreement postdated the petition's filing 
3 
date. He also does not establish that we erred in not considering the postdated document as evidence 
of the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). 
Next, we will discuss the criterion concerning the receipt oflesser national or international recognized 
prizes or awards of excellence. Here, as on appeal, the Petitioner once again argues that there is no 
existing prize or award that applies to his "new genre of music" and asks that we accept comparable 
evidence in the form of the "qualification of Excellent," which the Petitioner earned at a masterclass 
with I guitarist I 
Regarding the leading or critical role criterion, the Petitioner again points to his work with _ I relying on the company's past work with certain well-known artists as evidence 
of its distinction. In essence, the Petitioner reasse1is arguments he made on appeal regarding this 
criterion and the above criterion pertaining to lesser national or international prizes or awards; the 
Petitioner expresses his disagreement with our decision and points to evidence that we previously 
addressed, but he does not identify a law or USCIS policy that is inconsistent with our analysis, or 
explain how our analysis was incorrect as a matter of law or policy. 
Finally, the Petitioner cites to a Supreme Court precedent in which the Court determined that an agency 
decision is arbitrary and capricious "if the agency has relied on factors which Congress has not 
intended it to consider, entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the problem, offered an 
explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence before the agency, or is so implausible 
that it could not be ascribed to a difference in view or the product of agency expertise." Motor Vehicles 
Mfrs. Ass'n of the US., Inc. v. StateFarmMut. Auto Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983). However, the 
comprehensive nature of our analysis belies the assertion that our decision is not arbitrary or capricious 
based on the Supreme Court outlined discussion of these concepts. To the contrary, in our appeal 
decision, we considered and discussed the Petitioner's evidence, and offered sound legal reasoning as 
to why the evidence did not support a favorable determination with regard to each of the three disputed 
criteria. The purpose of a motion to reconsider is to address potential error in how the law or USCIS 
policy was applied in the preceding decision. Merely disagreeing with our conclusions without 
establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to USCIS policy that contradicts our analysis 
of the evidence is not a ground for reconsideration of our decision. 
In the matter at hand, the Petitioner has offered no cogent argument to demonstrate that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in our prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, although the Petitioner disagrees with our prior determination, he offers no new facts 
that warrant a reopening of this proceeding, nor does he establish that our prior decision was incorrect 
as a matter of law or policy. Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his current motion meets 
the requirements for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) or the requirements of a motion 
to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3), we will dismiss the motion to reopen and reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen and reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 31, 2024 In Re: 34288172 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software application development company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a product 
design director, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Beneficiary did not 
fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary meets the awards, 
published material, judging, original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, and high salary 
criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate a beneficiary's prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's "Flight app was awarded for its UI/UX design and 
featured as 'Example of Good Design' in the presentation made at Apple's I I I lin 2014." As evidence of this award, the Petitioner presented 
a screenshot of the Flight app along with Apple logos stating: "Featured on App Store" and "Featured 
onl lbut the record does not include evidence from Apple stating that the Beneficiary has 
received a prize or an award for his work. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that having an app 
"featured" by Apple in such a manner constitutes the Beneficiary's receipt of a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner presented a letter from P-E-, 
Director ofl Istating: 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
One ofthe projects we collaborated on, the I I Online Services App, was 
a tremendous success, receiving international acclaim and several prestigious awards. 
Under my direction as the product director, and through [the Beneficiary's] dedicated 
efforts, the app was awarded a Bronze at thel Ifor Best Mobile Apps and 
a Gold at the for Mobile App Awards. 
The Petitioner also submitted two pages from thel IBiog" listing 17 awards received by 
I but this evidence does not identify the Beneficiary as the recipient of a 1 
2 The record does not include sufficient corroborating evidence from the presenting 
organizations to support P-E-'s assertions that the Beneficiary received a Bronze at the 
for Best Mobile Apps and a Gold at the _________ for Mobile App Awards. 
Unsupported assertions have no evidentiary value and are insufficient to establish a filing party has 
satisfied their burden of proof See Matter ofMariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 673 (BlA2022). 
Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated the significance of either a Bronze I or Gold 1 _____ in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. Without sufficient evidence showing that 
the Beneficiary has received a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
users first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 3 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field. 4 users then determines whether the publication 
qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media publication. 5 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted articles, entitled "app for iPhone," 
I 
land I I 
______________________ While the Petitioner provided these 
articles discussing various apps he played a role in designing, this material is not about him. The 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), however, requires "[p]ublished material about 
the alien." See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 2:07-eV-820-EeR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 
(D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
With respect to this criterion, the Director stated: "The Petitioner provided screenshots of printouts 
from the app for iPhone, AppAdvice, MacWorld, et. al.; however, the printouts do not appear to 
indicate the URL address, nor does the evidence appear to indicate that the Beneficiary has material 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that "[t]he description of this type of evidence in 
the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes"). 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
3 
published about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media ...." The 
Director further indicated that the submitted material did not include "author attribution or publication 
information."6 In addition, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not shown the circulation or 
readership of the publications relative to other media. 
In the appeal brief, the Petitioner states that "[t]here is no way to assess the Apple App store through 
a URL. The app must be downloaded to an Apple-supported device." The Petitioner contends 
therefore that "USCIS is creating an impossible evidentiary standard for the evidence that was 
submitted." Requiring a URL helps USCIS determine the source of the submitted material, but this 
issue was not the only basis for the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this 
criterion. As stated by the Director, the evidence did not show the published material was about the 
Beneficiary. Nor has the Petitioner presented comparative circulation or readership information 
showing that the articles were in major trade publications or other major media. For these reasons, 
the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
USCIS determines whether the person has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification.7 The petitioner must show that the person has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the person actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others in the same or allied field of specialization.8 For example, a petitioner might document the 
person's peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the 
review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the person actually completed the review. 9 
The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on recommendations he provided his 
colleagues in making hiring decisions for design roles. The record reflects the Petitioner submitted a 
letter from O-C-, co-founder of I who stated: 
I was fortunate to be able to first work with [the Beneficiary] beginning in 2009, when 
we recruited his company's design services for my company,! I 
I have quite regularly relied on [the Beneficiary's] incredible design experience and 
talent, on not only leading projects, but also vetting and hiring designers for my 
companies. He is so exceptionally talented in mobile technology design, and has innate 
skills to judge candidates' qualifications, that we have asked him to participate in the 
screening and the hiring process for a number of our critical hires for design services. 
6 This criterion states that evidence of the published material "shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
7 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
4 
is certainly more successful due to his valuable input on which candidates 
have the right skills and fit for our company. 
O-C-' s letter does not elaborate and indicate who, when, and what specific work the Beneficiary 
purportedly judged. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how O-C-'s letter establishes that vetting 
and screening job candidates constitutes serving as a judge of the work of others, consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner presented a letter from B-Y-, General Manager of Consumer Marketing at 
I ITelecommunications Company, who indicated: "[W]e have heavily relied on [the 
Beneficiary's] input and consulted with him when hiring for critical design roles in both I land 
He is an excellent judge of talent and his insights have been invaluable in making 
hiring decisions for design roles." In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner offered a second 
letter provided by B-Y-asserting that the Beneficiary assisted his organization by "providing technical 
evaluations and creative insights that guided the hiring processes for critical design roles with my 
team." B-Y-further stated: 
Specifically, [the Beneficiary] assisted us in assessing potential candidates for UI and 
UX design positions, ensuring that their skills and creative vision aligned with our 
strategic objectives. His expert opinions were crucial in determining the suitability of 
these candidates for our projects, effectively serving as a jury to help us make informed 
decisions. 
B-Y-'s letters, however, do not contain specific, detailed information reflecting probative evidence of 
the Petitioner's judging experience. For example, the letters do not include names of individuals or 
dates ofjudging. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any evidence (such as candidate evaluation 
records) to support the claims in the letters. The Petitioner's submission of two letters from B-Y-that 
make vague claims regarding the Beneficiary's purported judging activity is insufficient to fulfill this 
criterion. 
Without additional information or evidence reflecting the Beneficiary's participation as a judge of the 
work of others, including specific, detailed information, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has the person made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 10 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters discussing the 
Beneficiary's product design work for the Petitioner,! Iand 
I I The record also includes analytics data for the I lapps. In 
addition, the Petitioner presented information aboutl las well as a share buyback agreement the 
Beneficiary executed with the company. The Director considered this documentation but found that 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary's work constituted original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director disregarded "the testimonials ofexperts in the field 
... without any analysis as to why their testimony was irrelevant." The Beneficiary's references 
discussed his product design projects at various companies, but their statements do not demonstrate 
the originality of his work and its major significance in the field. 11 As discussed below, the reference 
letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the 
Beneficiary has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's product design work for B-Y-, the company's former 
group sales and marketing director, asserted that the Beneficiary "lead the design of several critical projectsthat I was leading at including the Online Services App, 
Phone Operating System Interface Redesign, Streaming Service, and Music App. 
While B-Y-indicated that the Beneficiary "has time and again delivered beyond all expectations, 
crafting world-class user experiences," the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's work for I I has influenced the industry in a major way or has otherwise been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's involvement with the development of the app, S-A-, the 
Petitioner's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and cofounder, stated: 
__ (later renamed to I I one of the projects we took on as part of 500 
LABS, became the foundation for [the Petitioner] -as we decided to spin out the project 
as its own company and focus on it. Since the inception ofthe company, we've worked 
with [the Beneficiary] as a freelance designer where we created the first logo and 
branding for the app, he conducted research on comparable communication apps in the 
market such as -and conducted user research on validating 
our product design idea with real users. 
[The Beneficiary] has been a significant contributor to the design of the 
application since its verybeginning as a freelance designer and we have continued to 
work together on since 2017. The design work that [ the Beneficiary] has done 
for us was a critical factor in helping! Iachieve commercial success. 
S-A-further claimed that "[t]hel !application has garnered millions ofdownloads," but the record 
does not include analytics data to corroborate his assertion. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
this app has affected the field in a substantial way (beyond the Petitioner and its app users) or that the 
Beneficiary's contribution to the product otherwise constitutes an original contribution of major 
significance in the product design field. 
In addition, V-B-, founder and CEO ofl indicated that he "first met [the Beneficiary] in 2011" 
and "decided that he had the right skill set for our mobile app design needs, and he began working as 
11 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
a freelance designer for I I V-B-further stated that the Beneficiary "led our efforts in designing 
all of the branding assets and the mobile application design for I Ibetween 2011 and 2013. He 
played a critical role in making I I a technological and commercial success." The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's work for this app rises to the level of an original 
contribution of major significance in his field. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's product design work for the apps, B-A-, a product 
manager at stated: 
Our company recruited the product design services of [ the Beneficiary] for several digital 
products I was product managing. These projects included 
movie streaming apps in Turkey, and music 
streaming applications in Turkey. [The Beneficiary] led the design of these projects end 
to end from user research to interface and user experience design. Every stakeholder 
including myself as product manager and engineers were extremely impressed by [the 
Beneficiary's] product and design savvy. 
B-A-, however, does not offer specific examples of how the Petitioner's original work forc=]has 
influenced the field or industry to the extent that it is of major significance in the field. Nor has the 
Petitioner demonstrated that the level of attention received by the Beneficiary's specific work on these 
apps signifies that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In this case, the recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner do not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary's 
specific product design work is viewed throughout his field, rather than by a solicited few, as having 
risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely 
affirmed our decisions concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence 
beyond one's employers, clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at 
*6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) (upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily 
evidence of a track record of success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see 
also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held 
evidence insufficient "because it did not show widespread replication of [ the petitioner's invention]"). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's original work has affected his field at a level 
commensurate with contributions of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented slides and photographic images of what are 
claimed to be the Beneficiary's speaking engagements. The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "authorship of scholarly articles" and the submitted documentation is not 
evidence of the Beneficiary's scholarly articles. As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article 
7 
reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. 12 It is written by a researcher 
or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. 13 
Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by other experts in the field of specialization. 14 For 
other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 15 "Learned" is 
defined as having "profound knowledge gained by study."16 Learned persons include all persons 
having profound knowledge of a field. 17 Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
presented work meets the requirements of a scholarly article. And even if the Petitioner had 
demonstrated the Beneficiary's authorship of a scholarly article, which it has not, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the Beneficiary's work was in a professional or major trade publication or other form 
of major media. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner presented its March 2022 letter offering the Beneficiary the position of "Director of 
Product Design" with a salary of $180,000. 18 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner 
provided the Beneficiary's Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, showing that he earned $181,276 in 
2023. As evidence the Beneficiary's salary is high relative to that of others working in the field, the 
Petitioner submitted February 2023 Foreign Labor Certification Wage Results for "Web and Digital 
Interface Designers" in New York. In addition, the Petitioner offered May 2021 "National estimates 
for Web and Digital Interface Designers" from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, the 
Petitioner did not offer comparable salary evidence pertaining to the Beneficiary's specific occupation 
as a "Director of Product Design." Specifically, the Beneficiary's position of a "Director of Product 
Design" indicates both a different and a higher job classification than a web and digital interface 
designer. Moreover, the position description for the Beneficiary contains further job duties and 
responsibilities than a web and digital interface designer, reflecting a managerial position. 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary has received a high salary in 
relation to other product design directors rather than web and digital interface designers. Both 
precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
12 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15Id. 
16 Id. (citing to the Oxford English Dictionary's definition of "learned"). 
17 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
18 This job offer letter describes the Beneficiary's position as follows: "You will start in a full-time position of Director 
of Product Design. In this capacity, you will perform duties related to but not limited to managing all aspects of product 
and user experience design, the design for our marketing and communications, managing and building our design team 
and ensuring effective communications and collaboration around design between our product, engineering and executive 
teams." 
8 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Because the 
Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence demonstrating the salaries of other product design 
directors, it did not establish the Beneficiary commands a high salary in relation to others in his field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
III. 0-1 NONIMMIGRANT STATUS 
The record reflects that in 2022 the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants ofextraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, this approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'l v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 2021); Q Data 
Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. 
Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajfd, 905 F. 2d at 41. 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See, e.g., La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) (per curiam). Nor are we required to 
approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter ofChurch Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Constr. & Design Co. v. Bureau ofCitizenship & Immigr. Servs., 2008 
WL 2074097 *5 (N.D. 111. May 14, 2008) (describing as "prudent" that the AAO "assess each 
application on its own, rather than rubber stamping applications merely because of prior approvals"), 
aff'd sub nom. Constr. & Design Co. v. US. Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 563 F.3d 593 (7th Cir. 
2009). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria. 19 Because the Beneficiary's 
inability to meet three of the initial criteria is dispositive of the appeal, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We therefore reserve this 
issue.20 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even 
19 The Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, judging, 
original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, and high salary. 
20 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 
major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks 
omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); 
Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 
8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023)(determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved 
for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. 
(Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 
1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that 
"arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a 
baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the Beneficiary's work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 