U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18448027 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 1, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and two subsequent two motions to reconsider. The matter is 
now before us on a third motion to reconsider. In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, 
we will dismiss the latest motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
II. CHRONOLOGY 
Ordinarily , a petitioner must file a motion to reconsider no later than 33 days after the date of the 
decision for which that petitioner seeks reconsideration. 1 But because of delays arising from the 
COVID-19 emergency , U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) temporarily expanded the 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) and 103.S(b). 
filing window, effective March 30, 2020. 2 USCIS has extended this flexibility several times, including 
on September 11, 2020, when it extended the flexibility period to January 1, 2021. 3 The September 
2020 news release reads, in part: 
In response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services is extending the flexibilities it announced on March 30, 2020, to assist applicants, 
petitioners, and requestors who are responding to certain: 
• Requests for Evidence; 
• Continuations to Request Evidence (N-14 ); 
• Notices oflntent to Deny; 
• Notices oflntent to Revoke; 
• Notices of Intent to Rescind and Notices of Intent to Terminate regional 
investment centers; 
• Motions to Reopen an N-400 Pursuant to 8 CFR 335.5, Receipt of Derogatory 
Information After Grant; 
• Filing date requirements for Form N-336, Request for a Hearing on a Decision in 
Naturalization Proceedings (Under Section 336 of the INA); or 
• Filing date requirements for Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. 
USCIS will consider a response to the above requests and notices received within 60 
calendar days after the response due date set in the request or notice before taking any 
action. Additionally, we will consider a Form N-336 or Form I-290B received up to 60 
calendar days from the date of the decision before we take any action. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's first motion on the merits on September 24, 2020. The Petitioner filed 
her second motion 89 days later, on December 22, 2020. At that time, the Petitioner quoted the 
September 2020 news release, stating it permitted her to file the motion "within 60 calendar days after 
the response due date." 
We dismissed the motion as untimely on April 21, 2021. The Petitioner filed a timely third motion on 
May 6, 2021, which we will consider here. 
III. ANALYSIS 
On motion, the Petitioner states that she acted in good faith when she filed her December 2020 motion, 
because the September 2020 USCIS guidance contains "ambiguous and seemingly contradictory 
language." Specifically, in filing the December 2020 motion, the Petitioner relied on this passage: 
"USCIS will consider a response to the above requests and notices received within 60 calendar days after 
the response due date set in the request or notice before taking any action." 
2 "USCTS Expands Flexibility for Responding to USCTS Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-expands­
flexibility-for-responding-to-uscis-requests (last visited August 31, 2021 ). 
3 "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-extends­
flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests-l (last visited Aug. 31, 2021 ). 
2 
The Petitioner states that, given the above wording, "[i]t would seem that in addition to allowing up to 60 
days from the date of the decision for the submission of Form I-290B, this guidance also provides for 60 
days of flexibility from after the response due date set in the request or notice." A motion to reconsider, 
however, is not a "response" to a "request or notice." However one might interpret the sentence about 
the "response due date" in isolation, or on first reading, the direct statement that USCIS "will consider a 
... Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision" supersedes any ambiguous 
reading of the sentence that precedes it. 
A motion to reconsider must show that the disputed decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw 
or USCIS policy. The Petitioner's misreading ofUSCIS guidance does not show that we based our April 
2021 decision on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy, and therefore the Petitioner's error is 
not good cause for reconsideration. 
The Petitioner also contends that, by accepting the filing fee and issuing a receipt for the December 2020 
filing, "the Administrative Appeals Office actionably determined that [the Petitioner's motion] met the 
prima facie regulatory threshold requirements for a motion to reconsider, including that the matter was 
timely filed." The Petitioner further contends that we failed "to timely notify her of the rejection of the 
motion." This argument proceeds on an incorrect premise. We did not "reject" the December 2020 filing. 
We accepted the filing, and then dismissed the motion because it was untimely. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4) states: "A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed." Because 
timely filing is an applicable requirement (see 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i)), the regulations required us to 
dismiss the motion. And because our April 2021 decision was a dismissal rather than a rejection, we 
advised the Petitioner of her right to file a motion on that decision. The Petitioner has exercised that right, 
and we have accepted the filing, hence the present decision. Therefore, the Petitioner has not been 
deprived of due process in this proceeding. An error by the Petitioner ( or her attorney of record) 
concerning the filing deadline does not create a due process right to accommodation as though the error 
had not occurred, or as though the erroneous reading ofUSCIS policy had been correct. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 In Re: 16763390 
Date: September 1, 2021 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary 
Ability) U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
5900 Capital Gateway Drive 
Mail Stop 2090 
Camp Springs, MD 20588-0009 
U.S. Citizenship 
and !mmigration 
The Petitioner, a multi-media and 3-D animator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. The Director 
of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not provide evidence of his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, evidence that he meets at least three of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification under 8 CF.R. § 204.5(h){3). The Petitioner filed an appeal, which 
was dismissed by the Administrative Appeals Office {AAO). The Petitioner filed a motion to reopen and reconsider 
the dismissal of his appeal, which was dismissed for not meeting the requirements of a motion. 
The matter is now before us again on a second motion to reopen and reconsider. Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 {AAO 2012). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration , be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and establish 
that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a){3). 
On motion, the Petitioner indicated in Part 2 of the 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that he was filing an appeal 
and would submit his brief/additional evidence to the AAO within 30 days. In Part 7 of the Form 1-290B, the 
Petitioner stated that he was "filing a motion to reopen and reconsider .... I am filing my brief with addit'I [sic] 
evidence in 30 days from this appeal." On June 1, 2020, the AAO received a brief related to the motion to reopen and 
reconsider . On August 20, 2020, we sent the Petitioner correspondence to confirm whether he intended to file an 
appeal, a motion to reopen, a motion to reconsider, or a motion to reopen and reconsider. We received the Petitioner's 
response on September 22, 2020. He indicated his intent was to file a motion to reopen and reconsider. 
However, the regulations regarding the submission of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider do not provide an 
allowance for additional time to submit a statement, brief or additional evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5{a){l){iii), see 
also Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion, Form 1-290B at 6 (rev. 5/17/2018). The second motion does not 
provide evidence that the brief was submitted by the Petitioner together with the Form 1-290B of the first motion. 
AA0I290BAAON0000019078638 2013 www.usc1s.gov 
As the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
AA0I290BAAON0000019078638 3013 www.usc1s.gov U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22105561 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor at seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed twelve motions filed by the Petitioner 
between 2014 and 2021. Most recently, we dismissed his September 2021 (twelfth) motion to 
reconsider as untimely on February 22, 2022. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and 
reconsider our decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). In addition, a motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and 
be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) 
establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time 
of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l) and 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b), in general, motions must be filed within 33 days 
of the adverse decision. In response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic , however, USCIS 
extended the deadline for filing a Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. A petitioner may file a 
Form I-290B within 60 calendar days from the date of the adverse decision, if USCIS issued the 
decision between March 1, 2020, and January 15, 2022.1 As relating to a motion to reopen the 
proceeding, the filing deadline may be excused in the discretion of USCIS if a petitioner demonstrates 
that the delay was reasonable and was beyond their control. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The implementing 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence 
requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
In our February 2022 decision, we dismissed the Petitioner's twelfth motion as untimely filed. We 
explained that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 calendar days of the date 
we mailed the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l), 103.8(b). However, because of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we noted that USCIS would consider a Form I-290B filed within 60 calendar days of an 
unfavorable decision. Our decision further stated: "On July 9, 2021, we mailed the unfavorable 
decision to you. Your Form I-290B was received at the designated filing location on September 15, 
2021, which is 68 days after the decision." 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner contends that his twelfth motion "was sent on time" and that the filing delay was 
reasonable and beyond his control. He presents a U.S. Postal Service receipt indicating that he mailed 
his Form I-290B and supporting documents on August 3, 2021.2 This evidence is sufficient to 
corroborate the Petitioner's claim that he mailed his Form I-290B more than one month in advance of 
the filing deadline. There is no indication that the Petitioner's actions contributed to the unusual delay 
that occurred from after the date of mailing until the Form I-290B's receipt at the designated filing 
location on September 15, 2021. Because the record shows that the filing delay was reasonable and 
beyond his control, we will exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his twelfth motion. See 
1 USCIS Extends Flexibilityfor Responding to Agency Requests, available at https://www.uscis.gov/newsroom/alerts/uscis­
extends-flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests ( accessed on August 31, 2022). 
2 The record also includes a copy of the envelope in which his Form I-290B submission was mailed. The envelope was 
correctly addressed to the designated filing location and shows a postmark date of August 3, 2021. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). Accordingly, we will address the merits of his untimely (September 2021) 
twelfth motion in this proceeding. 
The present motion and his twelfth motion, however, do not offer new facts or evidence indicating 
that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award, or that he satisfies at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He therefore has not 
overcome our prior determination on these issues. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With respect to the merits of his arguments in support of both the present motion and the twelfth 
motion, the Petitioner lists documents previously considered in earlier proceedings and contends that 
he meets seven of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's conclusory 
statements that he satisfies seven regulatory criteria and is otherwise qualified for the requested 
classification, and his repetition of arguments previously made in support of his appeal and prior 
motions, do not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 3 In addition, while the Petitioner 
states that he "has 7 (seven) university degrees," he has not shown that his academic degrees fulfill 
any specific criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's arguments on motion do not 
demonstrate that we erred in concluding that he had not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that 
our determination was based on an incorrect application oflaw, regulation, or USCIS policy. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we erred as a matter of law or USCIS policy, nor has he 
established new facts relevant to our decision that would warrant reopening of the proceedings. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration. The Petitioner's appeal therefore 
remains dismissed, and his underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 For instance, the Petitioner points to his receipt of an ____ in 2005, but he has not shown that this award 
constitutes a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), or evidence of a nationally or internationally 
recognized award consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing the Petitioner's 
tenth motion, we noted that we had previously explained that the record did not demonstrate that the 
the Petitioner received enjoyed national or international recognition in his field. Further, we emphasized that, in his 
previous motion, the Petitioner did not address our determination that although he claimed to have received an international I in 2005, the record did not indicate that the international edition of the award existed prior to 2010. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 01, 2023 In Re: 28128980 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sound engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirement for the classification through evidence ofa major, 
internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed a subsequent appeal, as well as a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. The matter is again before us on a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
In our previous decision, we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of either a 
motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. Regarding the motion to reopen, we determined that while 
the documents intended to address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) had not been 
previously submitted, they were not new since they presented the same information contained in 
evidence already in the record. In addition, we acknowledged the submission of evidence related to 
membership in the Russian Music Union, but explained that the Petitioner had not previously claimed 
he met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and it was, therefore, not appropriately considered on 
motion. Regarding the motion to reconsider, we determined that "broadly disagreeing with our 
conclusions" was insufficient to meet the requirements of the motion. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Relying on the instructions to Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 1 and Chapter 3.8 ofthe AAO 
Practice Manual, the Petitioner argues that neither one "restricts [the] definition of 'additional 
evidence"' and, thus, we should have addressed the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and 
(ix). He contends that not considering this material was contrary to AAO policy and asserts that our 
analysis in the previous decision "does not make sense." 
However, Chapter 3.8 of the AAO Practice Manual concerns appeals, whereas our most recent 
decision dismissed the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The portion of our 
decision discussing the evidence submitted in support of these three evidentiary criteria focused not 
on whether this additional evidence should be accepted on appeal, but on whether it constituted "new" 
facts per 8 C.F.R. 103.5(a)(2), the regulation concerning motions to reopen. The Petitioner does not 
contest our conclusion that since these previously unsubmitted documents only restated facts that were 
already in the record, they did not constitute "new" facts and, therefore, did not meet the requirements 
for a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner also asserts that our reliance upon two precedent decisions of the Board oflmmigration 
Appeals ("the Board") was inappropriate because they did not involve the "processing of petitions for 
benefits." Citing to Matter ofM-F-O-, we explained that he had not only failed to address the evidence 
of his membership in the Russian Music Union in his brief, but he also had not previously claimed 
eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).2 Regardless, any new facts submitted on 
motion must establish eligibility at the time offiling. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter oflzummi, 
22 I&N Dec. 169, 175-76 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg. 
Comm'r 1971).3 
While he acknowledges that the Board's precedent decisions are binding on U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services in cases involving the same issues, he argues that our reliance upon Matter of 
Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496,496 n.l (BIA 2018), to confirm our conclusion that issues not discussed on 
appeal were deemed to be waived, was also inappropriate since that decision also involved removal 
proceedings and not the adjudication of petitions. The Petitioner asserts that we should have 
considered the exceptions he presented to the waiver of issues on appeal found in decisions from the 
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction due to his place of residence. The Petitioner 
does not, however, cite to precedent decisions supporting his contention that the waiver of issues on 
appeal in removal proceedings should be treated differently than the same issue in the adjudication of 
petitions. Therefore, he has not established that our citation to Board precedent decisions in support 
of our conclusion was contrary to law or policy. 
Further, the general rule in the Ninth Circuit is that issues not raised in an appeal brief are deemed to 
be waived. See Koerner v. Grigas, 328 F.3d 1039, 1048 (9th Cir. 2003) (finding that matters not 
specifically and distinctly argued in an opening brief are not ordinarily considered on appeal); Rizk v. 
Holder, 629 F.3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding that issues not raised in a brief are deemed 
waived). The Petitioner generally states that he renews his arguments from his previous motion 
1 The Petitioner does not, however, further explain how our decision was inconsistent with the instructions. 
2 See Matter ofM-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021), in which the Board refused to consider an appellant's 
humanitarian claims presented for the first time on appeal. 
3 The petition was filed on August 11, 2020 and the Petitioner did not become a member the Russian Music Union until 
October 28, 2020. 
2 
regarding exceptions to the waiver ofissues found in Ninth Circuit decisions. But while he previously 
cited to decisions supporting exceptions to this general rule, based upon prejudice to the opposing 
party and manifest injustice, he did not explain in his previous motion, nor does he in this motion, how 
or why they should apply here. 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy and was incorrect based upon the record of proceedings at the 
time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18315044 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who works in marketing and communications, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish 
eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, 
we will summarily dismiss the appeal. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which bas been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award), or through evidence that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy seven of the ten initial regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only of these criteria, pertaining to high salary or 
other remuneration. 
The Petitioner filed the appeal on February 5, 2021. On Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
the Petitioner indicates that she "will submit [a] brief and/or additional evidence to the AAO within 
30 calendar days." To date, seven months later, the record contains no supplemental brief or evidence. 
Likewise, the record contains no communication from the Petitioner showing good cause to extend 
the time to submit such a brief as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(vii). Therefore, we consider the 
record to be complete, and the appeal form to constitute the entire appeal. 
An officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned 
fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
identified specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. 
In the denial notice, the Director devoted four pages to explaining the conclusion that the Petitioner 
had not met six of the seven claimed criteria, taking into account both the Petitioner's initial 
submission and her response to a request for evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner summarizes each of the Director's determinations and then asserts, without 
elaboration, that the record does not support those determinations. For example, the Petitioner states: 
"Decision erroneously concludes that published material does not discuss petitioner's work despite 
significant evidence to the contrary contained in the record." The Petitioner also states that "the 
decision mis-stated the law, did not consider all evidence contained in the record and erroneously 
concluded that certain evidence was not probative when it was very probative." 
The above assertions, and others like them, do not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact. Rather, the Petitioner makes broad, general claims that the record does not 
support the grounds for denial. The Petitioner refers, several times, to "significant evidence ... in the 
record," but does not identify any specific evidence, or explain how that evidence overcomes the stated 
grounds for denial. Likewise, the Petitioner does not specify how the Director "mis-stated the law" 
or explain how her evidence "was very probative." The Petitioner states that she will elaborate on 
these points in a "brief to be filed within 30 calendar days," but, as noted above, the record contains 
no such brief and no evidence of its submission. 
General assertions that the Director erred, and that the record supports approval of the petition, lack 
the specificity required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18674323 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 02, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the appeal. Thereafter, 
we dismissed a combined motion to reconsider and reopen and a subsequent motion to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on 
an incorrect application oflaw or users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing the appeal, we withdrew the 
Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and decided that the Petitioner did not fulfill 
any of the claimed criteria. We dismissed the first motion, concluding that the Petitioner requested us 
to reconsider our decision without showing how we erroneously applied law or policy. Further, while 
he provided additional documentation, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the new 
evidence demonstrated his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
In our most recent decision dismissing the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we concluded that he did 
not show how we erroneously applied law or policy, as he submitted a brief mirroring his previous 
motion brief without any mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his combined motions. 
B. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
2 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
As discussed previously, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record of proceeding at the time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner 
submits a brief that is very similar to his previous motion brief. Although the current motion brief 
provides additional information about the Petitioner's admirable struggle against privation to 
successfully train and compete in martial arts, it makes the same arguments as the previous motion 
brief for the awards, published materials, judging, and leading or critical role criteria, without any 
mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his motion. Disagreeing with our conclusions 
without showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of 
the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006). 1 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, 
the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
. . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") 
Further, although the Petitioner now asserts that "most of my medals and all information about me 
participating in all kinds of competitions was collected by my trainer" and "I lost the bulk of my 
diplomas and certifications as a result of his death," he does not explain how the claimed unavailability 
of unspecified additional awards establishes that our prior motion decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 
As he did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior motion, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss the 
current motion to reconsider. 
D. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. As stated previously, a motion to reopen 
must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror 
the Board's definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(l) (stating that a motion to reopen will not be 
granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the 
former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have 
been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean facts that 
are relevant to the issue( s) raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the 
proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting 
1 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board), governed by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 1003 .2(b )(1 ), which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact 
or law in the prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements are fundamentally 
similar to those found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
3 
previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." In the current motion, the Petitioner 
offers previously submitted documentation. As this evidence does not qualify as "new" and we already 
evaluated it in earlier proceedings, we will not further consider it in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner also offers an additional letter of recommendation dated February 2016 from a 
representative of the I IGym inl I Thailand, indicating that the Petitioner trained at 
th~nd competed in a "fight i~ land for a "WMF pro world title in heavyweight division 
inl_______J' between 2013 and 2014. However, the Petitioner has not shown how this letter establishes 
his eligibility under any of the regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, 
we will dismiss his motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our latest decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, and the evidence provided in support of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19045495 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 02, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We initially rejected the Petitioner 's appeal as untimely filed on December 7, 2020. On July 21, 2021, we advised the 
Petitioner that we were withdrawing that rejection and reopening the matter in order to issue a decision on the merits of 
the case. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a director of photography whose credits include...._ ____________ __. 
films produced and released domestically and internationally. The Petitioner indicates his intent to 
continue working as a director of photography for several upcomin~ I projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner has claimed to meet up to eight of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration2; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
2 Although the Petitioner previously claimed he could satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), he does not 
contest the Director's determination that he did not meet this criterion, nor does he otherwise address this criterion on 
appeal. Accordingly , we consider this issue to be waived and will not further address it. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, 
that issue is waived). 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree, as the record establishes 
that the Petitioner is credited as director of photograph= for several films that were screened at 
~-----!film festivals in the .... l _________ __.J 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erred as a matter of fact and misapplied the law 
in evaluating the evidence he provided in support of the remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He maintains that he meets at least three and up to seven of the initial evidentiary 
criteria and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
Before turning to a discussion of the evidentiary criteria, we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion 
that he "currently holds an approved 0-1 petition as a person of extraordinary achievement in the I I industry" and his argument that his 0-1 nonimmigrant status "is prima 
facie evidence that he has met at least three regulatory criteria and has demonstrated a 'record of 
extraordinary achievement' as per 8 CFR 214.2(o)(3)(v)." 
0-1 classification is reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability or achievement. However, 
the prior approval of an 0-1 nonimmigrant petition does not preclude USCIS from denying a 
subsequent immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. In fact, the Petitioner "concedes that the regulations for the 0-1 forl I 
I !productions are not identical to the EB-1 visas of extraordinary ability 
regulations and is not arguing that [his] 0-1 status automatically qualifies for an immigrant visa." We 
emphasize that each nonimmigrant petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record and 
a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the 
information contained in the individual record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence intended to establish his eligibility for classification as an 
immigrant of extraordinary ability, not as a nonimmigrant of extraordinary achievement in thel I 
......._ _______ ~I industry. The Director's decision evaluated the evidence in the record to 
determine if it met the requirements for the immigrant classification sought, while also acknowledging 
the prior 0-1 approvals in his decision. Further, in adjudicating an appeal, we are not bound by the 
prior decisions of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner has been credited as the director of photoraphy on severall I films that 
received awards and award nominations atl _ film festivals. The Director concluded that 
"festival awards are not considered nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor because they are limited to associates, participants or members of the 
3 
festivals."3 We agree with the Petitioner that the record does not support the Director's reasoning. The 
evidence demonstrates that the film festivals rely on a competitive selection process, which results in only 
a fraction of entered films being selected for screening. Further, the record does not indicate that these 
festivals place any strict limitations on who may enter their films for potential selection, such as a 
requirement that filmmakers be "associates" or "members" of the festival or any other group or single 
institution. While not every film festival that is billed as a "national" or "international" festival grants 
awards or prizes that would satisfy this criterion, the Director's suggestion that no film festivals award 
qualifying nationally or internationally recognized prizes is incorrect. 
Nevertheless, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. The Petitioner served as the director of 
photography for films that received festival awards at~---.========.-~Film Festival, I I I I Film Festival,.__ _____ __. Film Festival, I I Film Festival, I I I JFilm Festival, and th~ I Film Festivall l among other festivals. 
However, he did not establish that he received awards from these festivals. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) calls for evidence of "the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards, rather than evidence of an 
individual's participation in award-winning projects. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that "an award granted to a production itself is also an industry 
recognition of the leading team members who produce it." However, the documentation in the record 
does not simply identify award-winning productions. It identifies other individuals, usually directors, as 
the named winners of the awards or prizes. While the Petitioner submitted letters from the producers and 
directors of some of these award-winning films who attest to his critical role in the productions, this 
evidence is not sufficient to establish that he was the recipient of any of these awards. As such, we need 
not evaluate whether those awards were nationally or internationally recognized prizes for excellence in 
his field. 
The Petitioner also seeks to rely on the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) which states that a petitioner 
"may submit comparable evidence" to establish eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
"do not readily apply" to their occupation. He maintains that the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) "does not 'readily apply' to [his] 'occupation' as a Director of Photography." He also 
argues that "the entertainment industry considers nominations for national or international awards to be 
equal recognition of acclaim as the awards themselves." Based on these claims, he states that USCIS 
"should accept the comparable evidence of the award nominations together with awards issued to the 
films produced using [his] cinematography." 
The record does not support the Petitioner's assertion that there are no industry awards applicable to the 
occupation of"director of photography." Specifically, he rrovided evidence indicating that several of the 
festivals mentioned above, including but not limited to the IF estival, thel I 
3 In making this observation, the Director cited to USCTS policy stating that "any limitations on competitors" should be 
considered when evaluating this criterion. See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
(stating that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance 
of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors 
(noting that "an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or international 
significance"). 
4 
□ Film Festival, and thel I Film Festival! l award "Best Cinematography" prizes 
,..........~·...,ectors of hotography. Further, the Petitioner's own submitted filmography indicates that the 2010 
fil for which he is credited as director of photography, won "Best Cinematography" at the 
.__ ______ __,Film Festival in 2011. The only supporting evidence related to this award is a 
screenshot from the website indicating that the film received prizes for "Best 
Photography" and I ~ at the 2012 edition of the festival. The record does not contain any 
additional evidence related ttj I the .__ ______ __, Film Festival, or the national or 
internationally recognition associated with the festival's awards, nor has the Petitioner specifically 
claimed that the "Best Cinematography" award he received at this festival was a qualifying award. 
Nevertheless, given that he submitted some evidence indicating that he has received an award for "Best 
Cinematography," and that his films have been screened at several festivals that award "Best 
Cinematography" or "Best Photography" prizes, his claim that this criterion does not apply to his 
occupation is not persuasive. 
As noted, the Petitioner also emphasizes that nominations for nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards should be considered comparable evidence under this criterion. For the reasons already 
discussed, the record does not support the Petitioner's claim that this criterion does not readily apply to 
his occupation or otherwise established that comparable evidence should be considered under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)( 4). He emphasizes that he served as director of photography forl I which was 
nominated for, but did not win, the prestigiou~ lprize at the 20051 I Film Festival. The 
record reflects that this award is given to the director of the winning film. The Petitioner cannot establish 
his eligibility under this criterion based on evidence that he contributed to a film that earned an award 
nomination for another individual as this does not constitute evidence of his receipt of a nationally or 
internationally recognized award. While his contribution to a film that received al I Film Festival 
award nomination is noteworthy and would be considered in a final merits determination, it cannot serve 
as evidence that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established his receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion based on his membership in the Belgian Society of 
Cinematographers (SBC). To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in this 
association is based on individual members being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field. In support of his claim, he initially 
submitted a letter from SBC co-presiden~ I who states that the society's membership is "a 
highly select group" that includes "several of the most influential professionals." He further states that 
membership is achieved "only through invitation," that it is "a great honor," and that the Petitioner's 
membership in the SBC "was granted on account of his superior credentials and accomplishments in the 
field of Cinematography." 
5 
This letter was accompanied by a screenshot of the SBC website (www.sbcine.be) which provides the 
society's mission statement and lists the current board of governors but does not identify the membership 
requirements or the SBC's procedures for admitting new members. The provided screenshot indicates 
that the SBC's bylaws are available on the website, but the Petitioner did not provide a copy of this 
document.4 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that additional documentation, such 
as the relevant sections of the SBC constitution or bylaws, would be needed to establish the SBC's 
membership criteria and requirements and to demonstrate that the individuals responsible for admitting 
new members are recognized as national or international experts in the field. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a second letter from I la letter from SBC 
membe and a screenshot of~ I 2019 article published on the SBC website titled D 
.__ _____ ---,, __ ....._w.;.;..:;:h:::..ic:..::h::....:::,includes a photograph of the Petitioner, with a summary of his past and 
upcoming work.'------~ states: 
[Members] achieve membership through invitation only based on their achievements in 
cinematography. All SBC members conduct important work in the profession of 
cinematography and enjoy a high level of distinction in the field. To be admitted for SBC 
membership, specifically, a candidate must be sponsored by two existing members of the 
Society. The candidate submits a written statement indicating why they would like to 
join. Candidates are then reviewed by the SBC commission which meets once a year to 
vote on new members to join. New members are accepted only if they are considered to 
have outstanding achievements and receive at least two thirds of the vote in accordance 
with the SBC bylaws. 
In his letterJ I states that he personally "nominated and ushered" the Petitioner into the SBC 
"[ d]ue to his outstanding achievements." He further explains that "SBC members are required to have 
served as director of photography on distinguished films that gained recognition and distinction in the 
industry" and that this "level of achievement is reached by all SBC members." 
In determining that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion, the Director noted that 
the submitted information from the SBC website "did not reveal any detail regarding the organization's 
requirements" for membership, such as the association's bylaws or constitution. The Director further 
observed that "[n]o information established that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to review the letters provided by D I landl I The Petitioner further asserts that "the plain language of the 'membership' 
criterion contains no requirement that an associations' constitution alone satisfy the criterion" and that 
there is "no existing requirement that an association's constitution be available on its website in order to 
satisfy this criterion." He emphasizes that petitioners "should be afforded an opportunity to use any 
relevant and credible evidence to make their case." 
4 Specifically, the provided screenshot of the SBC website shows that the site provides links to downloadable PDF versions 
of the association's statute or bylaws in the French and Dutch languages. 
6 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director should have addressed the letters from D 
I ~nd I lin evaluating this criterion. However, we conclude that their letters alone 
do not establish that the Petitioner's membership in the SBC meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii).I ~ second letter indicates that there is a "commission" within the SBC 
that reviews and votes on prospective members. He does not elaborate on the "commission" or the 
process it undertakes to admit new members, nor does he identify those who vote on prospective members 
~nized national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner submitted evidence thatD 
L___J who has director of photography credits on several major motion pictures, is an internationally 
recognized expert in the field, but the fact that he nominated the Petitioner for SBC membership does not 
lead to a conclusion that the commission that reviews and judges the credentials or achievements of SBC 
prospective members is solely comprised of such experts. 
~--~--~I also states that "new members are accepted only if they are considered to have 
outstanding achievements and receive at least two-thirds of the vote in accordance with the SBC's 
bylaws." I t letter does not, however, identify the section of the bylaws where membership 
requirements are stated, elaborate on how the association defines "outstanding achievement," or 
otherwise address the membership requirements stated in the bylaws that he references. As he does not 
directly quote specific sections of the SBC bylaws, it is unclear whether they use the phrase "outstanding 
achievement" or comparable language, and whether they further define or list criteria identifying what 
the association deems to be qualifying achievement(s). 
The Petitioner maintains that "there is no existing requirement that an association's constitution be 
available on its website in order to satisfy the criterion." As noted above, the screenshot provided from 
the SBC website indicates that the bylaws or statute of the association are publicly available on its website, 
and the Petitioner has had multiple opportunities to submit them for the record. Nevertheless, we 
acknowledge that there is no explicit requirement that a petitioner submit an association's statute, bylaws, 
or constitution as evidence in support of this criterion, and we have considered the alternate evidence that 
the Petitioner submitted. We conclude that the submitted letters do not address the SBC's membership 
criteria and requirements with the necessary specificity, and therefore do not provide sufficient probative 
details to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, and 
author of the material. 5 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of several published articles but 
concluded that none of the published material satisfied all requirements stated in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that four of the previously submitted articles meet 
this criterion and contends that the Director made several errors in evaluating this evidence. 
The Petitioner submitted two articles which feature him and his work as a cinematographer. One of these 
articles, titled.__ ____________ ____, was published by the online magazine VoyageLA. 
The Petitioner submitted information from the magazine's website stating that its "mission is to build a 
platform that fosters collaboration and support for small businesses, independent artists, entrepreneurs, 
local institutions and those that make our city interesting." Based on this limited information regarding 
the intended audience of VoyageLA, it cannot be deemed a professional or trade publication. The 
Petitioner submitted data from HypeStat indicating that voyagela.com receives over 7,000 visitors daily 
and has an Alexa traffic rank of 152,753. He also provided a data from Similar Web which indicates that 
VoyageLA has a global rank of 227,513 and a country rank of 62,138. The Petitioner has not explained 
how this evidence supports a determination that VoyageLA qualifies, in the alternative, as "major media" 
by having a high circulation or distribution relative to other online publications. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the article published by VoyageLA satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility based on an article that he claims was published in Kodak Lens 
Magazine in 2007. The submitted article is accompanied by an English translation and is about the 
Petitioner and his work as a director of photography. However, the submitted copy of the article does not 
identify the date of publication and the title of the magazine that published it, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, the article is not accompanied by any supporting information regarding 
Kodak Lens Magazine, its intended audience, or its circulation or distribution figures relative to other 
magazines. The supporting documentation consists of two articles that discuss Kodak and its standing in 
the photography industry over time; the articles do not mention Kodak Lens Magazine. For these reasons, 
this article does not satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
The two remaining articles that the Petitioner references on appeal were published by The Hollywood 
Reporter and The Washington Post. The Petitioner provided evidence to establish that these qualify as 
major media publications, and that the articles include the required title, date, and author of the published 
material. Therefore, we must evaluate whether the articles are "about" the Petitioner and relating to his 
work. 
ah b·ect of both 2012 articles isl I her relationship with her brother 
, her acting career, and the release of the short film titled! I which feature 
as lead actress, co-director, and executive producer. The Hollywood Reporter article, titled 
.....------.------------------' provides biographical information regarding 
and her personal life and relationships, her previous acting credits, and briefly discusses the 
shooting o~ I at the I }designed! I over a two-day period in 
2009. The Petitioner, who served as director of photography for the short film, was quoted in the portions 
of the article that discuss the film's shooting. He briefly comments about shooting a specific scene and 
about makin~ • I appear younger on film, and he speculates about the cost of rentin th 
lfor the production. The Washington Post article, titled '----------,,-------,---.,....---
.__ _________________ __.' is much shorter, covers similar topics as The Holl;,wood 
8 
Reporter article and links to that article. The article mentions that the Petitioner served as the film's 
cinematographer and he is briefly quoted as stating thatl l"did a good job." 
The Director concluded that The Hollywood Reporter article is not about the Petitioner and did not address 
The Washington Post article, which, as noted above, is similar in its focus and content. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "the Service's regulations and relevant case law do not mandate that 
the entire focus of articles must be on the [petitioner]. " Citing to Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. 
Ill. 1995) and Racine v. INS, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. 1995), the Petitioner maintains that he need 
only establish that "there is published material about him" and submit articles that "demonstrate his 
work within the field." The cited decisions address the specific issue of whether published materials 
about a petitioner must demonstrate that they are "one of the best" the field, at the "top of the field," 
or a "star" in the field. There is nothing in Muni or Racine to suggest that the district court determined 
that any article that mentions a person's name and their field of work should automatically be deemed to 
be "about" that person, regardless of the context or the remaining content of that article. 6 While the 
Petitioner's name is mentioned in The Hollywood Reporter article and he is quoted in those portions 
of the article that mentiow lwe agree with the Director's determination that the article 
is not about him, nor is the similar article that appeared in The Washington Post. 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not shown that any of the submitted articles meet all 
regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly , artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of support from experts in his field 
which are highly complimentary of his work and professional accomplishments . However , the 
Director determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. He included quotes from several letters and 
emphasized that while they discuss the Petitioner's artistic vision and technical knowledge as applied 
to specific productions , the letters lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner 's work has impacted the 
field or how his techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field such as, for example, 
evidence that other directors of photography have adopted his camera or lighting techniques. The 
6 With respect to this criterion, the Court in Muni stated: 
Under the INS' own regulations , all Muni need show is that there is "[p]ublished material about [him] 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [bis] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(3)(iii). The articles Muni submitted, which appeared 
in various newspapers and hockey magazines , clearly fit this requirement ; even the INS admits that some 
of the articles "discuss [Muni's] hitting ability and his record as a defenseman " (Admin.Rec . at 4). 
Id. at 445. 
9 
Director cited case law indicating that users may, in its discretion, consider advisory opinions as 
expert testimony, but that users is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding eligibility. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 r&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "Matter of Caron International is not a blanket permission to 
disregard or dismiss all testimonial evidence because the Director holds a different personal opinion of a 
beneficiary's contributions to the field." He notes that Caron instead "addresses a specific set of facts 
where expert testimony is contradictory or questionable, which may then be dismissed or given less 
weight by the Service. The Petitioner, citing to Matter of Skirball Cultural Center, 25 r&N Dec. 799 
(AAO 2012), states that the testimonial evidence submitted is "uncontroverted" and should be found to 
be "reliable, relevant and probative" absent "specific reasons for questioning the credentials of the experts, 
taking issue with their knowledge, or otherwise finding reason to doubt the veracity of their testimony." 
The Director, however, did not disregard, dismiss, or otherwise fail to consider the submitted expert 
letters. Rather, the decision reflects that he granted some weight to the letters but found them insufficient 
to establish eligibility. It is the Petitioner's burden to both specify his original contributions and to 
document the major significance of those contributions in the field. A petitioner's submission of 
credible letters from reputable individuals in their industry does not automatically lead to a 
determination that this criterion has been satisfied, particularly if the letters do not shed light on the 
specific nature of the original contributions and their impact or influence on the field. Letters of this 
kind can help to explain the nature of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with 
corroborating documentary evidence to establish the major significance of those contributions. Further, 
letters that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and its impact on subsequent work add value, while those that lack specifics do not add value 
and may not be considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
Upon review, we observe that the individuals who provided letters in support of the petition attest to 
the Petitioner's artistic and technical talents as a cinematographer, list his film credits, highlight the 
critical or commercial success of certain films, and contain assertions that he is well known, highly 
regarded, and in demand throughout the industry. We have no reason to question the credentials of 
the industry experts who provided letters in support of the petition or to doubt the credibility of their 
statements or the sincerity of their praise for the Petitioner's work. However, the letters focus on the 
Petitioner's contributions to specific projects or his overall standing in the field rather than specifically 
articulating how his contributions are of major significance in the field and have impacted subsequent 
work. We address a representative sample of the letters below but have reviewed and considered each 
one. 
Cinematographer! I who worked with the Petitioner on the filml I states that 
his contributions were "critical to the production's success," "elevated the story with his artful 
compositions, his stellar lighting and his fluid camera moves, and "demonstrated working knowledge 
of camera equipment and techniques ... superior to the overwhelming majority of his peers." Director 
and visual effects supervisorl I who has worked with the Petitioner on several commercial 
projects, states that he "possesses the unique talent and skill to make every project ... successful," is 
"well-regarded among his industry peers," is a "true artist who paints the most beautiful images with 
7 See USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
10 
light onto the screen" and "brings out the best in every production and every person that he works 
with." Director! ~who worked with the Petitioner on the feature film~ I andlstates that his "artistic vision and expertise" led these films to achieve 
"tremendous success" and praises his "artistic intuition, technical expertise and deep knowledge of 
filmmaking." I I a visual effects artist and supervisor who worked with the 
Petitioner on several films, credits him with being able to "frame and capture shots that most other 
cinematographers are simply incapable of achieving" and emphasizes that the Petitioner has been 
involved in commercially and critically successful projects and that his services are in demand. 
While the letters submitted with the initial filing describe the Petitioner's original contributions to 
specific productions in some detail, they do not comment on how these contributions to individual 
projects were of major significance, such that they had a remarkable influence or impact in the field 
of cinematography. 
The Petitioner provided additional expert testimony in response to the Director's RFE. I I 
who produced! land~------~ stjtes that ~he Petitioner's 
contributions to these two films "were new, original and entirely his own."~---~j asserts that "he 
devised, carried out, captured and presented extraordinary cinematography used in these films, which 
both went on to enjoy major significance in our industry." He describes the Petitioner's work in 
technical detail and notes that the films received significant film festival awards that are "among the 
highest milestones in thel I genre." The Petitioner also maintained that these two films, 
"provoked wides read public commentary in the field." In this re ard, he submitted reviews, articles 
an rankin s from media sources · I ,I D 
~------' andl I 
~---....,........ While these films received recognition from.___ _ _. film festivals and online media 
focused on thel lgenre, this recognition has not been linked to the Petitioner's cinematographic 
contributions to the movies and does not establish how those contributions were of"major significance 
in the field" consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml O )who produced and directed thd~-------' 
feature I 11 I credits the Petitioner with delivering "elegant cinematography," 
with managing "all camera and lighting decisions in the production to artfully author new original 
visual imagery," and with creating an atmosphere of I 11 I 
asserts that "[r]eaching the level that [the Petitioner] has in this industry, which amounts to the highest 
level in the field, itself constitutes an original contribution of major significance." Whild I 
asserts that the Petitioner's standing in the field alone represents an original contribution of major 
significance, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) does not indicate that attaining "the highest 
level in the field" is a relevant factor in determining whether an individual has made an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, a petitioner's overall standing in the field is 
evaluated in a final merits determination.I !praises the Petitioner's artistic and technical work 
onl land his overall success in the filmmaking industry but does not identify how his 
contributions to this film have impacted subsequent work in the field of cinematography. 
In a second letter submitted in response to the RFEJ I states that the Petitioner has used "his 
exceptional camera and lighting skills" to make original contributions to numerous award-winning 
productions, including "several short films that have major significance in the industry." Specifically, 
11 
he hi hli hts the fact that six of the Petitioner's short films "have exhibited and won awards at 
film festivals."! lasserts that "winning awards atl I 
L.;-------...,.._f_e_st-iv_a_l_s__,means your film is then shortlisted for I I, the highest 
recognition that exists in film." He further states that "by contributing essential cinematography to 
films that have been shortlisted for~-----~ [the Petitioner] has performed work in this 
industry that is outstanding, substantial and meaningful."81 l appears to equate the Petitioner's 
contributions to short films that were potentially eligible foJ I voting with original 
contributions of major significance, but this interpretation of "major significance" does not take into 
account the requirement that the Petitioner demonstrate how his specific contributions have impacted 
or influenced subsequent work in his field. 
Overall, the letters submitted in response to the RFE pointed to media coverage of the Petitioner's 
films, awards or award nominations received by those films, and his overall standing and reputation 
in his field, but do not contain specific, detailed information identifying or explaining the unusual 
influence his work has had in his field. The Petitioner similarly maintains his films have been "widely 
recognized, written about, and discussed, and are plainly evidenced as being considered important and 
impactful in the field" and states that "an individual who is not making influential original 
contributions simply would not be able to gamer such recognition in his field." 
However, we emphasize that evidence related to awards, award nominations, published materials, and 
the critical and commercial success of the Petitioner's work has been considered under the appropriate 
criteria. None of that evidence specifically recognizes the Petitioner for making an original 
contribution of major significance that has impacted or influenced his field, nor does the record 
sufficiently establish a connection between that evidence and the significance of any original 
contributions he has made to the field of cinematography. For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect 
a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 9 At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a critical role as a Director of 
Photography for a slew of commercially successful blockbuster films." He submitted box office 
receipts obtained from the website Box Office Mojo for the following four films: 
8 The Petitioner submitted a co of the 'for the.__ ______ ~ and a copy 
of the.__ ____________ __. This evidence indicates that a film that wins a qualifying award at the listed 
festivals is eligible.__ ______ __.voting. While the six of the Petitioner's short films were selected for screening 
at five of these festivals the record does not establish that any qfthe films received one of the specific awards listed in the 
-----------.-------'' For exampleJ~--,--~Jwas nominated for qualifting awards at and at the 
.__ _________ ~F_i_lm_F_e_st_iv_,al but did not win either award. The filml~ ___ j~received an ·.__..--------t 
Award" at th Film Festival, but the only qualifying awards listed for this festival are.__ ___ ~ 
for Best~-~ Short Film and Bes~ I Short Film. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
12 
• I 1(2013) -The report from Box Office Mojo indicates that the film has achieved 
$6.8 million in gross receipts inl I and $477,341 itj I 1t ranked second in the 
c==]market in its first weekend ofrelease inl I 2013 with over $4 million in sales.10 
• ~2015)-The report shows total gross receipts of $3.35 million inl I It ranked 
second in the I I market in its first weekend of release with $1.4 million in receipts. • I t2007)-The report indicates total gross receipts of$97,785 i1 I and 
it ranked 11th durin its opening weekend in the I I and I _ market with 
27 490 in recei ts i 2007. 
• .__ _________ ____. (2013) -The Box Office Mojo report indicates lifetime gross 
domestic receipts of $122,305 and an "all time domestic rank" of 11,012 in the U.S. market. 
The Director determined that, while the Petitioner submitted some documentation of box office 
receipts, he did not provide sufficient supporting evidence to establish that any of the films on which 
he is credited as a director of photography enjoyed commercial success relative to other films. 11 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's determination that the record contained "no 
evidence" demonstrating the relative commercial success of his films, noting that the figures from Box 
Qffice Mojo included weekly rankings for each film m its res ective market. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that "in its opening release weekend----......--.--t2013,I lgrossed 
$4,022,572 making it the #2 highest-grossing film in,__ _ ___.ahead of other major motion picture 
earners inl ~t the same time." He makes a similar claim regarding the filml I which also 
ranked second in thd I market during its opening weekend. 
The Petitioner also submits more completd I and box office data from Box Office 
Mojo for thq 12013 openin weekend o As noted, it ranked second in both 
markets among movies that were i_,__ _______ ___, theatres the same weekend. However, we 
cannot determine based on a single weekend's receipts how the film performed overall relative to 
others in these markets. The evidence indicates that the film's overall gross receipts inl I were 
over $6.8 million. Whil~ I earned over $4 million in its opening weekend, there were 10 
other films ranked in the top 25 that weekend that had alread su assed $6.8 million in recei ts in 
,__ __ ~I For example, movies such ;:i~ ., ., l and all 
had cumulative gross receipts between $25 million and $40 million in th ,__ _ ___. market as o 
.'-----:-:-,-' 2013. Similarly, six of the movies in the box office's top 10 during the same weekend had 
also already outperformed.__ ____ ___. in terms of gross receipts in that market. This evidence 
illustrates that a single weekend's box office receipts do not reflect a film's overall commercial success 
relative to other films released in the same markets, and the Petitioner has not provided evidence that 
would allow for comparisons of total receipts over a longer period of time. 
10 The Petitioner stated in his cover letter accompanying the initial submission that this film earned over $23.6 million 
domestically and "a total of $80.573.774 worldwide." However, he did not submit any corroborating evidence of the 
film's U.S. or global receipts. 
11 The Director also raised concerns regarding that the evidence from Box Office Mojo do not "show how the foreign 
currency was converted into United States currency." The Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to establish that Box 
Office Mojo is a reliable source of sales figures and rankings and we do not share the Director's concerns regarding the 
reported sales figures. 
13 
The Petitioner has also requested review of previously submitted testimonial evidence which addresses 
the commercial success of his work. s ecifically, the letter from I the producer and director 
ofl I film,......_ _____ _,, states that he and his team "were informed by the studio's 
leading executives tha .__ __ ____,, __ __.,was one of I ts most watched original films of 2018" 
and "was the number one film fo_,__ __ _.ori inal or otherwise, in nearly every single territory around 
the globe" in its initial month of release. also emphasized that the film's viewershi 
surpassed that of two other.__~----- released in the same month_...___----.- _______ __. I I and I !starring~---~ Finally, he explains that~-~deems information 
regarding viewership to be proprietary and it is therefore not reported by media sources.12 
The Petitioner submits additional evidence related tol I and its standing asl I provider 
of streaming film and television content. We observe that the "commercial success" criterion is 
inherently sales based, while I I subscribers pay a flat fee for unlimited streaming, such that 
individual movies do not generate "sales" in the traditional sense. The Petitioner maintains 
nevertheless that "becoming one oti ~ s most watche films in a given year amounts to 
a major commercial success in the performing arts." However,..._ __ ....,...._.., letter, which relates 
general, second-hand information from unidentified sources withi does not provide sufficient 
information regarding the commercial success of relative to that of other streaming 
service movie releases. While the Petitioner emphasizes tha ___ ~does not release this information 
for media reporting, it has not been established this information is otherwise unobtainable for any 
purpose. 
Testimonial evidence in the record indicates thatl ras sold tol lfor $1.8 million, 
but the record does not provide a contract or any context for this figure to establish that it would be 
considered a "commercial success" relative to other content sold for streaming as al I 
For these reasons, even if the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) allowed for 
the submission of streaming data and rankings or some other measure of "commercial success" in lieu 
of box office receipts, additional evidence would be needed to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion based on the commercial success of1 I 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which relates to whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue.13 
1~ btated tha~ I has an industry-wide standard that they do not release numbers or ratings with regards to 
how many times a film and/or episode of television on their platform is viewed." 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
14 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he has worked on some successful film projects and has received recognition for 
his work as a director of photography. But he has not shown that this recognition rises to the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 3, 2024 In Re: 33421747 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks employment-based first preference (EB-I) immigrant classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, or that she meets at least three 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is 
now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Because the scope of a motion is 
limited to the prior decision, we will only review the latest decision in these proceedings. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). We may grant motions that satisfy the aforementioned requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our March 2024 dismissal decision, we adopted and affirmed the Director's decision. See Matter 
ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 
1997) (noting that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally 
accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st 
Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the 
decision below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). We noted that the 
Director's decision provided a detailed analysis of evidence submitted for each of the claimed criteria 
and discussed how the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner met each criterion. 1 
A. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner provides a March 28, 2024 letter from G-B-, Director and Executive 
Producer at indicating that the Petitioner "will continue her 
role as the Main Producer at our production company for projects such asI I among others." She also submits a March 30, 2024 letter from R-B-, Vice President 
of I Idiscussing the Petitioner's capabilities as a producer and "her 
contributions to various intern videos forl I R-B-'s letter requests that the Petitioner "be granted 
permission to work" as a Video Producer for and anticipates their "continued collaboration."2 
While these letters and the accompanying deal memos show that the Petitioner intends to continue her 
work in the United States, 3 they do not satisfy any of regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), address the grounds for denial of the petition, or render her eligible as of the filing date of the 
Form I-140. 4 
In addition, the motion includes a March 30, 2024 letter from B-F-M-, currently CEO at I_I Iand formerly the Petitioner's "teacher and thesis assessor" at ______ asserting 
that they collaborated onl land that their "project garnered significant recognition, with four 
awards and eleven nominations worldwide, including a nomination for best producer for [the 
Petitioner]." B-F-M-'s letter does not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the 
record include adequate corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner meets the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or any other regulatory criterion. Nor does his letter otherwise offer any new 
facts to overcome the grounds for denial. 
The Petitioner also resubmits copies of previously presented documents, but they do not introduce any 
new facts to overcome the bases for denial. The motion to reopen does not offer new facts or evidence 
indicating that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, or that she satisfies at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's motion 
therefore has not overcome the stated grounds for dismissal in our appellate decision. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner states on motion that she is "resubmitting detailed explanations" regarding the 
categories of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) she claims to meet. She asserts that she 
1 While the Director's decision contained some statements that would be more relevant to a final merits determination, we 
agreed with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet the plain language ofat least three regulatory 
criteria. 
2 The letters from G-B-and R-B-were accompanied by deal memos outlining the terms of the Petitioner's work for their 
organizations as a producer. 
3 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) (indicating that "the petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming 
to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise"). 
4 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (stating that a "petitioner must establish that he or she is eligible for the requested benefit at 
the time of filing the benefit request"). 
2 
previously provided sufficient evidence of her extraordinary ability with the "initial application, 
response to the Request for Evidence (RFE), and appeal" and that she finds "it necessary to revisit the 
supporting materials." While the Petitioner's motion reiterates her previous claims of eligibility, she 
does not identify any legal or factual error in our appellate decision. 
The Petitioner also points to documents previously considered in earlier proceedings and maintains 
that she meets all ten of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's 
conclusory statements that she satisfies ten regulatory criteria and therefore is qualified for the 
requested classification, and her repetition of arguments previously made in support of the appeal, do 
not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Her arguments do not demonstrate that our 
appellate decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy and that our decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established new facts relevant to our appellate decision that would warrant 
reopening of the proceedings, nor has she shown that we erred as a matter of law or USCIS policy. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration of our decision. Accordingly, the 
motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore remains 
dismissed, and her underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 03, 2024 In Re: 32125202 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the classification's initial evidentiary requirements . The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In her initial filing, the Petitioner asserted that she has a major, internationally recognized award 
qualifying as a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director concluded that the 
record did not support this assertion, and the Petitioner has not challenged this conclusion on appeal. 
An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). As such, the Petitioner must 
establish that she meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the two criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
for acting as a judge of the work of others in her field and for publishing scholarly articles in her field. 
The record supports this conclusion. The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence to establish her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards in her field, membership in associations in her field which require outstanding achievements 
of their members, her original scientific contributions ofmajor significance to her field, or performing 
in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii), (v), and (viii). As the Petitioner did not meet at least three criteria, the Director did not conduct a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision is in error because it attributes one of her 
awards to the wrong organization and because she does meet at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. She also resubmits evidence from her underlying petition as well as new documentation 
addressing her eligibility. Upon a careful review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
overcome the Director's grounds of denial. 1 
A. Receipt ofLesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes or Awards for Excellence in the 
Field of Endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To establish her eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner submitted 
materials regarding her third-level, sixth place Excellent Achievements in Science and Technology 
1 While our decision may not reference every document submitted, we have reviewed each one. 
2 
award from the 2 and her second level 
Progress Award from the presented by thel I 
I The Director concluded that the record 
did not establish the significance of these awards or the criteria used to grant them. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits new documentation including the rules and criteria governing the awards and 
contends that since they are awarded by the Chinese government and by national organizations, 
respectively, they are "nationally recognized," as required by regulation. 
First, we will not consider evidence submitted for the first time on appeal where the Petitioner was 
previously put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide that evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because 
"the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial"). The Director's notice of intent to deny (NOID) stated 
that the Petitioner could submit several forms of evidence for this criterion, including documentation 
of her awards' significance and the criteria used to award them, but the Petitioner did not submit these 
in her NOID response. As such, we will not consider the new award documentation provided on 
appeal. 3 
Furthermore, contrary to the Petitioner's assertions, an award is not considered nationally or 
internationally recognized for purposes of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) simply because it is awarded by a 
national or international-level organization. To establish eligibility, we consider factors such as the 
criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or international significance of the awards or 
prizes in the field, the number of awardees or prize recipients, and limitations on competitors.4 As 
noted, the Petitioner previously did not provide any documentation indicating whether her awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized beyond the awarding institutions. While she does provide one 
magazine article on appeal, as well as information regarding the awards criteria, we decline to consider 
this evidence for the reasons explained above. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 766. The record 
therefore does not establish that the Petitioner has received a lesser national or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in her field, and she does not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 As noted by the Petitioner on appeal, the Director's decision misattributed this award to its translator, the Intercultural 
Mutual Assistance Association. However, because this award does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility regardless of 
who awarded it, the error was, at most, harmless. See generally Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 350 n.5 ( citing cases 
where errors that were not material to the end result were therefore considered hannless). 
3 Additionally, while the evidence provided for the first time on appeal will not be considered when determining the 
appeal's outcome, we note that the regulatory document regarding the Excellent Achievements in Science award does not 
mention third level prizes like the one the Petitioner received -only first, second, and special prizes. This raises questions 
about what award the Petitioner won. In any future proceedings in this matter, the Petitioner should provide objective, 
reliable evidence resolving this discrepancy. Matter ofHo, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2.(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
B. Membership in Associations in the Field of Endeavor Which Require Outstanding Achievements 
of Their Members, as Judged by Recognized National or International Experts. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that her membership in the Chinese Society of Particuology (CSP) meets the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and initially provided a foreign-language website printout to 
support this claim. The Director's NOID informed the Petitioner that under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), 
all foreign-language documents submitted to USCIS must be accompanied by a complete and certified 
English-language translation, but the Petitioner did not provide such a translation in response. Lacking 
any English-language documentation about CSP's membership requirements, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides an English-language printout of CSP's website for the first time, as 
well as supporting documentation regarding the organization's activities. As noted above, we do not 
consider evidence submitted for the first time on appeal where, as here, the Petitioner was previously 
put on notice and given an opportunity to provide that evidence. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 
766. The Petitioner has not overcome the Director's decision and established that she is a member of 
an association in her field which requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
national or international experts. 
C. Original Contributions of Major Significance in the Field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner states that her co-receipt of a patent in China indicates that she has made an original 
contribution of major significance to her field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, as noted by the 
Director, the record does not include documentation showing what impact this patent had on the 
Petitioner's field. The support letter from J-W-, the Petitioner's graduate school supervisor, only 
stated that "this patent has been of important significance and utilized in the relevant science and 
technology companies" and provided no examples of that utilization, and no corroborating evidence 
was provided to support these claims. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the patented work "has been utilized byl I I I but provides no documentation to support this claim apart from a printout ofl I 
website homepage, which does not mention the patented technology. 5 This evidence is insufficient to 
establish to what extent, if any, I Iused the patented technology. The record therefore does not 
establish that this patent was majorly significant in her field. 6 The Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
5 We note that the website's "company news" section consists of articles from 2017 despite being printed out in 2024. It 
is therefore not apparent when it last updated. 
6 In her petition, the Petitioner also claimed that her citation record showed that her research constituted a major 
contribution to her field. The Director's decision noted that she did not provide documentation comparing her citation rate 
to that of others in the field. As the Petitioner did not bring this issue up on appeal, we consider it to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 336 n.5. 
4 
D. Performed in a Leading or Critical Role for Organizations or Establishments with Distinguished 
Reputations. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that she qualifies for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) through 
her work at the I I where she has been employed since 2014. She asserts that her authorship 
of a research protocol and performance of related experiments "established a very good foundation" 
for later results. The record includes documentation of disputes between the Petitioner and her 
colleagues regarding the level of credit she should receive for her role in a paper that was published 
as a result of this research. However, this documentation does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility 
for this criterion because it does not show that she performed in a leading or critical role for thel I I Ias an organization. 
For example, the support letter from Professor D-K-, the Petitioner's I Isupervisor during 
the relevant period, only states that the Petitioner was a capable and diligent employee, and does not 
indicate that she either led research in his lab or played an especially important part in it. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (noting that employer letters can help show eligibility for 
this criterion "so long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically 
addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department was 
leading or critical"). The email exchanges between the Petitioner and her colleagues regarding the 
relevant work also indicate that her authorship of the research protocol was not considered leading or 
critical by those colleagues, and that the relevant paper was drafted in its entirety by someone else. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's statements regarding why she believes she played a leading and 
critical role in the disputed research paper. However, the criterion requires a showing that she played 
a leading or critical role for an establishment or organization. The record does not document the 
significance of the relevant paper to the overall outcome of the I I activities, and so does 
not establish that the Petitioner's contributions were critical to that organization. Additionally, given 
that the lab she worked in was led by her supervisor, the record also does not indicate that her role for 
thel lwas a leading one. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner does not have a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and has 
not provided evidence meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need 
not conduct a final merits analysis under Kazarian and hereby reserve that issue. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did 
not otherwise meet their burden of proof). The petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 04, 2024 In Re: 33135347 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a movie, television, and theatre director, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that he met the initial requirements for this classification through evidence of either a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner asserted that he was one of the most prominent directors in Georgia, directing several 
nationally renowned theatrical, television and film productions. The Petitioner indicated that he has a 
"notorious reputation" in Georgia and that his work has been displayed in numerous theatres and stages 
throughout the country and that he has played a critical role for distinguished organizations within the 
country, including leading television networks and theatres. The Petitioner also stated that he was 
admitted as an honorary member of the Georgian Film Academy. 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or show that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied seven of these criteria, relating to the receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; membership in associations in the field 
requiring outstanding achievement; published material about him in major trade publications or major 
media; participation as a judge of the work of others; display of his work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases; performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation; and command of a high salary. The Director concluded that the Petitioner 
did not meet any of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all seven claimed 
criteria, and that the Director therefore should have proceeded to a final merits determination. 
Upon review of the record, the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) relating to 
membership in an association in the field for which classification is sought requiring outstanding 
achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. The Petitioner submitted documentation that the Beneficiary was 
admitted as an honorary member of the Georgian Film Academy in including a letter from the 
organization's vice president discussing his induction and accomplishments in the Georgian film 
industry. The Petitioner also provided the bylaws of the Georgian Film Academy indicating in article 
3.2 that honorary members, a membership level above regular members, are selected based on a career 
"so distinguished from the others that his or her work has historical significance for Georgia and his 
or her achievements go beyond film industry" as well as "universal recognition and exceptional 
2 
sympathy of the audience. 1" Article 3.3 further reflected that members are selected by members of 
the board of the Georgia Film Academy including "Georgia's most successful directors, actors, film 
critics and art critics." In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director listed 
the evidence submitted and concluded that the "evidence provided does not establish the plain 
language of this criterion," providing no specific analysis of this evidence. 
Upon review, we disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner has met the plain language 
of this criterion. The Petitioner is a director in film, television and theatre; therefore, the Georgian 
Film Academy is within the field of the classification sought. Further, the requirements for honorary 
membership indicate a level of accomplishment commensurate with outstanding achievement, or a 
career "so distinguished from the others that his or her work has historical significance for Georgia 
and his or her achievements go beyond film industry" along with "extraordinary success." The 
provided bylaws also reflect that the Petitioner's selection was more likely than not made by national 
experts in his field. As such, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the plain language of this 
criterion. 
In addition, we also determine that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion requiring evidence of the 
display ofhis "work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The 
Petitioner submitted substantial evidence reflecting his involvement in the direction of numerous 
musicals in Georgia including several foreign language versions ofI lat the Theater, 
Festival,! ITheater, and thel !Theater, among others, We conclude that 
his direction of these several performances meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner's career as a director further satisfies the criterion related to having performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As discussed above, the Petitioner was engaged in directing numerous 
musicals at leading theatres within Georgia, including the I I Theater and the I I 
I I Theater. He further provided sufficient evidence to substantiate the distinguished reputation 
ofthese theatres within the country, including documentation reflecting these performances and letters 
from the management of these theaters discussing his leading roles. In addition, the Petitioner 
provided supporting documentation and letters indicating that he was engaged as a director and 
producer for I I a leading television station in Georgia, most notably producing and 
directing a popular television show on that channel, I I Thus, we conclude that the Petitioner 
has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he more likely than not performed in a leading 
and critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the stated grounds for denial ofthe petition. Nevertheless, the 
record does not support approval of the petition. Granting the initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final 
merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if they show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that 
1 This same article within the bylaws also indicated that regular members are selected based on making "a significant 
contribution in the development of the film and whole industry during his or her career and that the applicant also achieved 
most extraordinary success setting apart from the other candidates." 
3 
he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( l )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated grounds for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 4, 2024 In Re: 33362220 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish either that the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award or, in the alternative, that the record satisfies at least three of the 10 initial 
evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
A petitioner may establish prima facie eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability either by 
demonstrating receipt of a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award or, in 
the alternative, that at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria provided at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), implementing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Director concluded that the record 
did not establish that the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award. The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not "articulate what evidence 
was being submitted for consideration under each of the 10 criterion [sic]" and, consequently, that the 
Director "is unable to determine what criterion the [P]etitioner is attempting to meet." On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that, at the time of the Director's decision, the record articulated at least three initial 
evidentiary criteria and supporting evidence through which he believes he qualifies for the requested 
classification. 
We have reviewed the record in its entirety. The brief the Petitioner submitted in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) both asserts that the record establishes eligibility under at least 
three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria provided at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and it articulates what 
evidence the Petitioner believes satisfies the respective criteria. The RFE response brief specifically 
states that the record "satisfie[s] the first criterion, receipt of a lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award," and it discusses evidence the Petitioner believes satisfies that criterion. 
The RFE response brief also indicates, 'The fifth criterion has also been met," referencing 'Tabs 5, 
13, and 16 ofthe original documents." The RFE response further asserts, "[ the Petitioner] also satisfies 
the criterion for the ninth category as evidence by his executive sales positions," again referencing 
"Tabs 5, 13, and 16 of the original documents list" and "Tab 34." Accordingly, we withdraw the 
Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not articulate what evidence was being submitted for 
consideration under at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria provided at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Based on the foregoing, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. The Director may 
request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination regarding whether the 
record satisfies at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria provided at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
and any other issue. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on 
remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 05, 2024 In Re: 32220185 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a digital artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationalit y Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner is a digital artist who produces works in the surrealist photomontage genre. At the time 
of filing he was employed in the United States as a digital art director pursuant to O-lB nonimmigrant 
status, and was also involved in digital art workshops and mentoring other artists. He states that he 
plans to continue these latter activities. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions. We 
agree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets an additional four evidentiary criteria. 1 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he does not meet at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have received prizes or awards, which were 
granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in their field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's conclusion that he does not meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) relating to his pa1iicipation as a judge of the work of others in his field. An issue not raised on 
appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 1 
The Petitioner initially claimed to meet this criterion based upon his selection as an "Honoree" for the 
I !Awards in 2019 in the "Social: Art & Culture" category, and his selection as a finalist for the 
2023 "iCanvas Digital Art Award." In his decision, the Director concluded 
that the record did not establish that the Petitioner received a prize or award from either competition. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision regarding the I I 
I Iand refers to previously submitted evidence regarding his selection as a I I 
honoree. That evidence includes a page from thel IAwards website his selection as an 
honoree, another page describing the judging process, and an email from the A wards informing 
him that his work has been recognized. The judging process information states that in the first round 
ofjudging, five nominees are selected for each award category, from which one winner is selected in 
the second round. It adds that up to 15% of the remaining entries (20% in the email) can receive 
"special commendation" as honorees. 
The first element of this criterion requires that an individual receive a prize or award. The Petitioner 
has submitted evidence that his name appears on the I I website as an honoree, but does not 
indicate ( or submit evidence showing) what prize or award he received as a result of this selection. In 
addition, being selected as a nominee for an award, in this case al Istatuette in the Social: Arts 
& Culture category, is not equivalent to winning that award. Here, the Petitioner was not selected for 
the short list of nominees for the award, and thus was not eligible to receive the award. We agree with 
the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not established that he received a I Iaward. 
In addition, even if the Petitioner had established that he received a I Iaward, we also agree that 
the Petitioner has not established that his selection as an honoree is nationally or internationally 
recognized. The Director noted in his decision that while a story about the I Iawards appeared 
in the New York Times onl 12006, the article stated that the 
title was "self-proclaimed," which did not support a showing a national or international recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director placed undue emphasis on this phrase, and restates 
his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), in which he stressed the importance of the 
New York Times reporting on the I I awards in showing their recognition. But we note that the 
article also referred to the awarding organization as "the grandly titled 
and focused on the "quirky" nature of the proceedings. While we 
recognize the stature and reach of the New York Times, the content and tone of the article does not 
convey recognition of a prestigious award. 
Other evidence in the record regarding the recognition ofI I awards was posted by the Public 
Broadcasting System and the I !Public Policy Center on their own websites. The articles 
promote their own programs and websites which were nominated for I I and encourage readers 
to cast votes for their nominees in the I IPeople's Voice Awards categories. While both the latter 
article and another very brief article published in the Los Angeles Times mention the I I 
I I moniker, this phrase carries reduced weight in the context of self-promotional materials. 
More importantly, this evidence does little to show that the I I awards are recognized in the 
Petitioner's field ofdigital art, as neither ofthe organizations promoting their nominations are involved 
in that field. Further, there is scant mention of the Petitioner's selection as al I honoree in the 
remainder of the record, including interviews of him published after 2019, indicating that neither the 
Petitioner nor the interviewers considered his selection as a !honoree worthy of emphasis. 
3 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we agree that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence of published material that is about them and 
relates to their work in their field of endeavor. The material must include the title, date, and author 
information, and must be published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
medium. Also, in compliance with the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(3), materials in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a certified English translation. When determining whether material 
was published in one of the qualifying types of media under this criterion, relevant factors include the 
intended audience and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership of the publication. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles which are about him and his work as a digital artist. These 
articles were published on websites including I I petapixel.com, thisiscolossal.com, 
boredpanda.com, mymodemmet.com, forbes.com, worldjoumal.com and others, including several 
which appear to be what is described in the record as "inspiration biogs." Regarding the articles 
published on the latter two websites, these were published after the date the Petitioner filed his petition. 
Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 8 e.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 
14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! eomm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the 
petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 
(eomm'r 1998). Accordingly, we will not consider these two articles. 
In his decision, the Director reviewed the evidence from similarweb.com regarding visitation statistics 
for the websites where the articles were published, and concluded that this information did not 
establish that the websites qualified as professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Specifically, he stated that visitation statistics differed from viewership of a website, and thus that the 
evidence from similarweb.com was "not useful" in determining whether a publication is a 
professional, major trade, or other major medium. On appeal, the Petitioner cites to a description of 
page visits of websites and asserts that the statistics presented do not include involuntary visits to a 
website as suggested by the Director. 
users may not utilize novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 e.F.R. 
§ 204.5. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 758 
(9th eir.2008). Here, the Director's dismissal of the evidence presented was not based on the plain 
language of the statute, regulations, or relevant users policy, which acknowledges that professional 
or major online publications are a form ofmedia which may qualify under this criterion. The evidence 
shows thatl lranks relatively high in global and country visitation, and thus qualifies as a 
major medium. On the other hand, while boredpanda.com has similarly high visitation rankings, 
particularly in the category "Other Arts & Entertainment" in the United States, this website is referred 
to as an inspiration blog in one of the reference letters in the record, and advertises that "Anyone can 
4 
write on Bored Panda." As the evidence does not provide statistics for the particular blog page in 
which the material about the Petitioner and his work was published, the Petitioner has not established 
that this material was published in one of the qualifying media types. 
Accordingly, we disagree with and withdraw the Director's determination regarding this criterion, and 
conclude that the Petitioner has established that he meets its requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred in his decision by not considering the content 
of several reference letters submitted, as well as the work he created for several well-known 
organizations. Those letters include two which focus on what the Petitioner considers to be his most 
significant contribution: the selection of his art as the splash screen for I I for 2021. 2 
R-D-, a product manager forl Istates that the Petitioner was part of the company's! I 
team of artists who helped the company design I I for use on the and that the unveiling 
of his splash screen art took place at the company's annual conference. R-D-notes that eight million 
people use I I every month, and that the Petitioner's work was featured in marketing the 
product. This letter verifies that the Petitioner's I I gained broad exposure through its 
featured use in thel Iapplication and marketing, but does not establish that it widely impacted 
or influenced other artists who were exposed to it in using the application. 
R-W-, an author of two books featuring the work of artists using notes that the Petitioner 
was featured in his second book. He also calls the splash screen selection 
and states that through it many other artists were inspired and influenced by the 
Petitioner's work. While we recognize the writer's expertise and skills in using and teaching 
his statement regarding the prestige of the splash screen selection is not otherwise 
supported in the record. Also, as with the letter above, he does not show that by being exposed to the 
Petitioner's work, other digital artists were influenced by it in producing their own artworks. 
E-J-, a fellow digital artist working in photomontage surrealism, lauds the Petitioner's skill and 
style, noting that the scaling of animals is a hallmark of his work. He also comments on the 
splash screen, stating that the selection of the Petitioner's work place him as a "top of the line artist 
using this software." In addition, E-J-notes the Petitioner's social media following and the displays 
of his work in inspiration biogs. As previously discussed, the record includes evidence of the 
Petitioner's work in several of these inspiration biogs and thus supports the writer's statements in that 
2 We have reviewed and considered all of the letters in the record, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
5 
regard. But the writer does not describe a specific original contribution made by the Petitioner that 
has impacted the field of digital art to the extent that it is of major significance. 
In addition to the reference letters, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the use of his work in 
connection with the Grammy Awards and the United Nations, as well as large, multinational 
corporations, shows that it has been "widely implemented." But the evidence shows that the 
Petitioner's work was used as part of a marketing campaign by the I I change in connection 
with its partnership with the Grammy A wards, not that it was displayed as a part of the Grammy 
Awards as the Petitioner suggests. Similarly, while the Petitioner's work was displayed, together with 
that of many other artists, at the Exhibition in conjunction with a United Nations 
conference inl IPortugal, the evidence does not show that it was "implemented" by the United 
Nations as the Petitioner asserts. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner's work has been incorporated into marketing campaigns by 
well-known companies such as and has gained exposure through the I I 
application and inspiration biogs. In addition, the letters demonstrate that other artists respect his style 
and use of technology in creating his work. However, the record does not establish that the Petitioner 
has made an original contribution of major significance to the filed of digital art. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have served in a 
role that was either leading or critical for an organization or establishment, or a department of division 
thereof, and that the organization, establishment, department, or division has a distinguished 
reputation. Evidence of a leading role may include a title and matching duties, and should indicate 
that the petitioner is or was a leader. Evidence supporting a critical role should show that the petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or 
establishment's activities, or those of a division or department. Second, a petitioner must show that 
the organization or establishment, or department or division thereof: for which the leading or critical 
role was performed has a distinguished reputation. Factors may include the size, longevity, media 
coverage, awards, and industry rankings of the organization, establishment, department, or division. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(b)(l). 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred in relying in part upon his statement that he 
was transitioning out of his role for his employer at the time of filing, noting that the plain language 
of this criterion allows for consideration of current and previous roles. We agree that past roles are 
considered under this criterion, but note that the Director did not rest his conclusion on this factor 
alone. He also considered the letter from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of his employer, 
originally submitted in support of a nonimmigrant visa petition filed for the Petitioner, in which the 
CEO describes the Petitioner's duties as digital art director. Although the title of "director" implies 
leadership duties, and the CEO indicates that the Petitioner supervises design staff, the letter does not 
indicate that the Petitioner leads a specific department or division of the company. It also does not 
provide sufficient context to show that the Petitioner's role was leading for the overall company. 
6 
As for whether the Petitioner's position was critical for his employer, the CEO writes that the 
Petitioner's expertise in digital art "cements the agency's name in the market but also serves as a 
beacon, attracting new clientele," and goes on to note that the Petitioner "created successful campaigns 
with our biggest clients," and that he "develops our business and brings high-profile clients." While 
attracting clients is important for any business, the letter lacks sufficient detail to demonstrate that the 
nature and amount of business brought in by the Petitioner, and any resulting revenue or reputation, 
has been of significant importance to his employer's operations. 
In addition, even if the Petitioner had established the first element of this criterion, he has not shown 
that his employer enjoyed a distinguished reputation. The record includes a photograph of a trophy 
for the 2019-2020 __________ wards received by the Petitioner's employer, but 
no further information regarding the award. Despite the Petitioner's emphasis on the company's 
receipt of an I I the record does not show that this award conveys the same recognition and 
reputation as the more commonly known I Iaward granted on a national and international basis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits copies of the company's webpage which shows the logos of clients 
for which it has completed projects, asserting that this list of "major multinational clients" 
demonstrates its distinguished reputation. This list differs slightly from that previously provided in 
the CEO's letter, but carries the same evidentiary weight. We acknowledge that the Petitioner has 
submitted evidence that matches two of the factors considered when determining an organization's 
reputation, but as with the evidence concerning the award discussed above, this documentation lacks 
sufficient depth concerning the nature and longevity of the company's relationship with these clients 
to demonstrate that it has a distinguished reputation. 
Based on the above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Previous Approvals for O-1B Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 B status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has approved at least two O-1B 
nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approvals do not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, 
definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in 
the nonimmigrant O-1B category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). However, in the 
immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. Moreover, each petition is separate and independent and must be 
adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. 
C. Coming to the United States to Work in Area of Expertise 
While no offer ofemployment or labor certification is required for this classification, a petitioner must 
submit clear evidence that they are coming to the United States to continue working in their area of 
expertise. This evidence may include letters from employers, evidence of prearranged commitments, 
or a statement from the petitioner detailing their plans. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
7 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's statement was not sufficiently detailed 
regarding his plans for working in the Untied States, and that he had not submitted sufficient evidence 
of prearranged commitments. On appeal, the Petitioner highlights letters and emails showing interest 
from several organizations in continuing to work with the Petitioner. We agree that this evidence, 
together with his statement, is sufficient to show how the Petitioner will continue to work as a digital 
artist in the United States, and withdraw the Director's conclusion to the contrary. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 5, 2024 In Re: 33751624 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mechanical engineer and researcher , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The 
filing before us is a motion to reconsider our decision to dismiss the Petitioner's appeal. A motion to 
reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 1) based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy, and 2) incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). For the sake ofbrevity, we incorporate our previous analysis of the record and will repeat 
only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's assertions on motion. Our 
previous decision in this matter was ID# 29963016 (AAO MAR. 4, 2024). 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision, in which we concluded that 
he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii), relating to judging, scholarly articles, 
and leading or critical role. We also determined that the Petitioner did not meet the plain language 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which mandates a showing that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in his field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner asserts on motion that we erred in concluding that he did not meet the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). To satisfy the plain language of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that 
he has not only made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner reiterates verbatim narrative provided in his appeal brief on motion, which we 
considered in dismissing the appeal, noting for instance: 
The record highlights an array of compelling material, including expert testimonials 
from distinguished figures such as [Dr. S. Dr. C-and Dr. B-], which underscore the 
uniqueness and significance of the Petitioner's research. Furthermore, it emphasizes 
the acknowledgment of the Petitioner's work being presented at international 
conferences and receiving substantial citations, solidifying its impact. The support 
from executives of major corporations, experienced engineers, and esteemed 
academics is also highlighted as attesting to the profound influence of the Petitioner's 
research on mechanical engineering and related industries. 
In support of the motion, the Petitioner relies on the 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, for the proposition that 
2 
"testimonials, letters and affidavits about [a] person's original work" and "documentation that the 
person's original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field" are examples 
of "relevant evidence" to be submitted in support of this criterion. In this regard, the USCIS Policy 
Manual advises, in pertinent part: 
Published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from 
others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to 
others' work in that field, may be probative of the significance of the person's 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the 
person's contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed 
original contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes 
documentation corroborating the claimed significance. 
We agree that the provision of such evidence is relevant to a showing that a petitioner has met the 
plain language requirements of this criterion, but in this case the evidence falls short in establishing 
the instant Petitioner's eligibility for it. In our previous decision we acknowledged that the Petitioner's 
work has been published, cited, and presented at conferences, but concluded the dissemination of the 
Petitioner's work is not, in itself, sufficient evidence of its impact. While experts in the field may 
recognize the potential significance of the Petitioner's research within the field, the plain language of 
the criterion requires evidence oforiginal contributions ofmajor significance in the field. In evaluating 
the evidence, eligibility is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). We determined in our prior decision that 
absent the submission of contemporaneous probative evidence to support the Petitioner's assertions, 
he did not adequately establish the significance of his research. 
We also considered the evidence relating to the Petitioner's work while employed by L-, a company 
which specializes in pipe support design and production, noting the letter from L-' s product 
development supervisor credited the Petitioner with the successful movement of the design and 
manufacturing of cryogenic pipe supports from a facility in China to North America. We explained 
that this letter and a letter from another colleague highlighted the importance and value of the 
Petitioner's job performance during his employment, but the authors did not describe how his 
contributions as an employee led to impacts beyond their businesses. The letter authors repeatedly 
referred to the Petitioner's original and innovative approaches, but they did not describe those 
approaches or elaborate on any specific resulting outcomes. We determined these letters did not 
contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions ofmajor significance 
in the field. 
Additionally, we analyzed and discussed other letters from the Petitioner's former instructors and 
colleagues which conveyed the high regard they hold of the Petitioner's work and the Petitioner 
himself as a thorough, knowledgeable, and creative individual. We acknowledged that the letters 
highlighted the potential prospective importance of the Petitioner's research to the agricultural, 
medical supply, and automotive industries. We also noted that while some letters included language 
3 
that alluded to the impact of the Petitioner's research and methodologies, they did not provide 
examples of the depth or breadth of that impact. 
On motion, the Petitioner relies on the importance of the product lines he worked on while employed 
by L-, indicating that L-is a "world leader in piping support," with "major clients, including [E-, W-, 
and S-]. He emphasized that W-"is one ofthe world's most prominent suppliers ofnuclear technology 
and [E-] is obviously one of the world's largest oil and gas companies." He asserts: "Is it not, by the 
preponderance of evidence standard, reasonable to assume then, that the Petitioner's work for [L-] is 
being implemented and impacting world-leading companies in crucial economic, environmental and 
national security sectors?" 
Here, the Petitioner asks us to "assume," without the prov1s10n of contemporaneous probative 
evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance to the field through his 
employment with a company that provides piping support to clients spanning a variety of industries in 
the United States. While the Petitioner asserts on motion that "the biggest energy companies in the 
world have been directly benefited by the Petitioner's 'original and innovative' work," the record falls 
short in demonstrating that his own work for L-constitutes original contributions ofmajor significance 
to the field. Matter ofChawathe, supra. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden on motion to show that our previous 
determination that he did not satisfy the plain language requirements of this criterion was based on an 
incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, or that our prior decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We affirm our previous 
determination that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Turning to the issues in the motion relating to our dispositive final merits determination in the previous 
decision, the Petitioner's motion brief does not directly address the conclusions from our March 2024 
decision. In our final merits determination, we considered the totality of the evidence in the record 
and discussed our reasons for determining that the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner has 
risen to the top of his field and has sustained national or international acclaim in that field. We noted 
that the weight given to evidence depends on the extent to which such evidence demonstrates, reflects, 
or is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim enjoyed by those at the very top of 
their field of endeavor. A lesser showing would be inconsistent with the regulatory definition of 
"extraordinary ability" as "a level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For example, we explained that the record reflected the Petitioner's participation as a judge on a single 
conference panel. While the coordinator of the conference spoke highly of the Petitioner's work on 
the panel, the record did not include documentation demonstrating that the conference was of such 
notability as to warrant the participation of an individual of national or international acclaim in his 
field. As another example, we concluded that the Petitioner has authored a research paper that 
appeared in a major trade publication and has presented his research at several conferences, but the 
record did not include evidence showing that his work has been widely applied in the field of 
mechanical engineering or has significantly impacted some element of that field. 
4 
On motion, the Petitioner does not specifically address the detailed analyses that we provided 
regarding the evidence he submitted in support of his assertions that he warrants a favorable final 
merits determination as an individual of extraordinary ability. The purpose of a motion to reconsider 
is to show error in the most recent prior decision, but the Petitioner did not do so here. Instead, he 
"take[s] issue with [our] inference that satisfaction ofthe [ original contributions ofmajor significance] 
criterion is required to satisfy the final merits determination of extraordinary ability," but he does not 
cite to law or policy in support of his proposition that we erred in analyzing this evidence as part of 
our final merits determination. Notably, we incorporated our discussion of the evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion into our final merits determination, but we did not state or imply in our prior 
decision that the Petitioner must satisfy more than three criteria either to meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or to satisfy the final merits determination requirements. 
The Petitioner asserts through counsel that "while we believe that a correct application of the 
preponderance of the evidence standard establishes the Petitioner has made original contributions of 
major significance, we wish to highlight that the totality of the evidence, which satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements, does more likely than not demonstrate extraordinary ability." Counsel's 
unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 
(BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight"). To determine whether a petitioner has established eligibility for 
a requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS must examine each piece of evidence 
-both individually and within the context of the entire record -for relevance, probative value, and 
credibility. Matter ofChawathe. We did so here, and explained in our prior decision why the evidence 
in the record did not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
While the Petitioner may disagree with aspects of our analyses of the evidence in the prior decision, 
he has not shown on motion how we neglected to collectively consider the record under the 
preponderance of the evidence standard, or that we otherwise erred as a matter of law or policy in 
determining that he does not warrant a favorable final merits determination. We affirm our previous 
determination that he has not demonstrated through "extensive documentation" that his efforts have 
brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a national or international level, such that we could 
conclude that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
On motion, the Petitioner also avers that "[w ]e believe the Petitioner's prospective contributions to 
the benefit of the national interest, to wit, the nature of his work, carry unique merit and value. We 
ask that [USCIS] please consider this fact when reviewing the subject motion." It appears that the 
Petitioner is asking us on motion to ignore the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) which 
requires the Petitioner to show at the time offiling the petition, that he met the statutory and regulatory 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). He suggests that he can establish his eligibility through 
"prospective contributions to the benefit of the national interest" that will accrue to the field at some 
unknown future date. 
We lack the authority to waive or disregard any of the Act's requirements, as implemented by 
regulation. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683,695 (1974) ("So long as this regulation is extant 
it has the force oflaw."). Immigration regulations carry the force and effect oflaw. United States ex 
5 
rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260, 265 (1954). Therefore, we cannot "credit" the Petitioner 
with unrealized accomplishments that may at some future point in time come to fruition and establish 
his eligibility. We affirm our previous conclusion that the balance of the record demonstrates the 
Petitioner's proficiency and promise in the field of mechanical engineering but does not contain 
evidence sufficient to demonstrate that at the time of filing the petition he enjoyed sustained national 
or international acclaim for his research or other work within the field. 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner does not sufficiently address the specific adverse 
determinations and conclusions in our prior decision or establish that they were in error; rather, he 
primarily relies on vague and general assertions, alleging that we inappropriately analyzed evidence 
or employed an incorrect standard of proof He has not established that our previous decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21881018 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 6, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chemist and manufacturer of dietary supplements, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in "chemistry and natural products" at Universi in 
1980, and pursued postdoctoral training at !University and the University o I I He established three companies which he directs: [ I and I both in India, andl I in New York, which he established in 2021 while in 
the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. The Petitioner states: 
In 1988, I started my own company and independently started to [ conduct] research on 
natural products. I view myself as an emerging scientist, and I am mainly interested in 
[processing] Edible products ... to check their efficacies in [ treating] different diseases. 
My current research involves the development of novel compounds for various critical 
diseases where no present day therapies [exist] like Pancreatic Cancer Stem Cells, 
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma, Castrate Resistant Prostate cancer, Lung Carcinomas, 
Alzheimer's diseases, Sars-cov2, Metabolism and Joint Pains. Compounds have been 
tested in Xenograft studies of these diseases and have [shown] very intriguing efficacy. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner published six scholarly articles, to meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed 
criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only 
one criterion, pertaining to publication of scholarly articles. We will discuss the other claimed criteria 
below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner co-authored six scholarly articles, published between 1979 and 1985. Heavy citation of 
published work can be an indication of the significance of an individual's contributions. 6 USCIS Policy 
ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Here, each of the Petitioner's articles has 
2 
been cited between2 and 1 7 times. The Petitioner has not established that this rate of citation overroughly 
four decades demonstrates major significance. 
More recent documentation indicates that the Petitioner has continued to conduct research outside an 
academic setting. Documents from India's patent authorities indicate that he registered a patent in 2004 
for a "process for preparing the phannaceutical extract." He also filed two applications in 2020, for "a 
process for preparing a phannaceutical preparation for diabetes" and "a process for preparing a 
pharmaceutical preparation. The Petitioner did not document the outcome of these applications. 
The Petitioner submits three letters. One, written in 1984 by a chemistry professor at I does not 
identify any specific research contributions by the Petitioner. Rather, the five-sentence letter is addressed 
to an administrative official at asking to extend the Petitioner's postdoctoral fellowship "for one 
additional year." 
The other two letters were newl written to support the petition. An assistant professor at the University 
of stated that the Petitioner "discovered new botanical drug 
__ against COVID-19," and that"[ w ]e are in the process of the [sic] beginning phase I clinical 
trials." The letter indicates that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) "has provided pre-IND 
number," but the Petitioner submitted no evidence to corroborate this claim or explain its significance. 
The chief executive officer ofl I, "an operating/venture fund," has "known [ the Petitioner] 
since 19 7 5 ." The letter discusses I I in similar language to the letter quoted above, and also 
indicates that an unspecified "compound invented by [the Petitioner] ... has shown intriguing efficiency" 
against "pancreatic cancer stem cells which ... are the main culprit for developing chemoresistance in 
pancreatic cancer." 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted documents referring to commercialization 
and testing of compounds developed by the Petitioner's companies. These materials provide details about 
those compounds, but they include no intrinsic evidence to establish major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted two additional letters. The president of 
who has "worked closely" with the Petitioner since 2016 "to analyze his natural product compounds," 
stated: 
Our efforts working with [the Petitioner's] natural products have revealed ___ 
inhibitor activity for several high-profile I The greatest inhibition was seen with 
HER2, a receptor I that has been an actively studied target for the treatment 
of human cancer. I believe that [ the Petitioner's] research program represents a novel and 
promising research strategy that will lead to promising advancements in the treatment of 
human cancers and related maladies. 
The Petitioner submitted documentation relating tol I test results, but did not establish that 
these results had been published or otherwise disseminated more widely in the field. 
A professor at stated: "Our group is actively collaborating with to 
investigatel effects on various GI cancers. In our initial screening, we also observed that 
3 
__ inhibits the growth of various cancer cells ... .. gave us tremendous hope for the 
management of cancer." 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that I I has attracted attention beyond his 
collaborators and those with a commercial interest in the product. Despite the hopeful comments of the 
Petitioner's collaborators, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that the wider field considers 
the Petitioner's contributions to have major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserted that his "patent is nowused by [the University I I University Institute for making ointments for diabetic wounds." The Petitioner 
submitted technical documents from University relating to testing of compounds, and a copy of a 
letter indicating that "the topical application of .. may be considered as a pmmising therapeutic 
option for treating chronic wounds in diabetic patients." The letteris from2018,neai1ythree years before 
the Petitioner filed the petition, and the record does not establish that the university adopted the use of the 
compound since that time. Furthermore, in the absence of any additional evidence, use at a single 
institution would not establish major significance in the field. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that, while the Petitioner has submitted documentation describing 
his work, he has not shown that his "research has made a major impact on the field, or been utilized on 
any scale." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: "Impact of my research will be seen in coming months. . . . All our 
compounds may need FDA approval for which funds are required. So not published but only patented." 
He adds: "Anticancer, antidiabetic, Anti COVID-19 compounds already developed. Anti COVID-19 
Got pre IND no. from FDA to go for Clinical Trails [sic]. Working on Neurodegerative [sic] diseases." 
The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l). As a 
result, we cannot approve a petition prematurely, on the expectation that the "impact of [his] research will 
be seen in the coming months." To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must 
show that his original contributions already have major significance in the field; it cannot suffice for him 
to anticipate the field's future response to his work. 
With respect to the references to the FDA, the Petitioner has not established that the FDA only concerns 
itself with contributions of major significance. Additionally, as he notes, "All our compounds may need 
FDA approval for which funds are required," nothing shows that funding will be received or the FDA 
would ultimately approve these. The Petitioner's intention to pursue further steps with the FDA regarding 
his companies' products is not a major contribution, and does not establish the major significance of those 
products. 
The Petitioner repeats that claim that his company's "antidiabetic compound [is] already used by 
University India to develop ointment for quick wound healing & [preventing] amputations." As noted 
above, the Petitioner has shown that the university evaluated one of his compounds, but he has not 
established that the compound has been widely adopted and had an impact not only at one institution, but 
throughout the field. 
4 
The development of medicinal compounds is inherent to the Petitioner's current work; the invention of 
any given compound is not, in and of itself, a contribution of major significance. The Petitioner has not 
satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner stated: "I am self employed and Revenue is being generated from commercialisation of 
my patented compounds." Citing inf ormation on his income tax return for 2020-2021, the Petitioner 
stated that, during that tax year, he earned "910,000 Indian Rupees as wages and an additional 460,241 
Indian Rupees as business remuneration" from his companies, for a total of < 1,370,241. Citing salary 
survey data, the Petitioner asserted that his total income "is approximately four times the average in India" 
for "Analytical Chemists and otherresearchers." The Petitioner did not submit the first-hand survey data 
itself, and therefore this assertion is both uncorroborated and lacking in potentially important context. 
In a request for evidence, the Director asked for documentary evidence sufficient to allow a meaningful 
comparison between the Petitioner's salary and remuneration and that of others in the same field. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted printouts of salary ranges for a variety of occupations: 
Occupation 
Medical Scientist 
Medical Director 
Research Scientist 
Biomedical Engineer Average Annual Salary 
<832,000 
<855,000 
<687,490 
Ministry of Defence Emeritus Medical Scientist 
Indian Council of Medical Research Scientist <357,000 
<790,830 
<451,692 
Scientist <596,088 Source 
Salary explorer 
Salary explorer 
Payscale 
Collegedunia 
Glassdoor 
Indeed 
Indeed 
The wide range of figures indicates a lack of consensus. Some figures concern employment with a 
specific employer, and thus do not represent the field. The Glassdoor figure is tagged with a "Low" rate 
of confidence in the data; the printouts do not establish the reliability of the other figures. The printouts 
do not list the duties of the occupations, and the Petitioner has not established that his position is 
comparable to the many occupational titles listed in the printouts. Of particular significance, the 
Petitioner owns three businesses and, in this way, derives income beyond his salary. The record 
identifies those businesses but provides only a small amount of information as to the nature of their 
activities. The printouts do not take this significant factor into account. 
Apart from the other issues, the Pay scale printout indicates that 10% of medical scientists in India earn 
more than <2 million, which is more than double the Petitioner's stated salary of <910,000 and 
considerably higher than hist stated total compensation of about <1.37 million. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the web printouts state "the compensation for medical 
scientists without taking into account whether they are corporate executives or business owners" like the 
Petitioner is, and therefore the Petitioner had not provided a valid basis for comparison. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the "average salary of [a] scientific officer'' is <52,000, and that his 
<140,000 "income ... supports my life and R&D comfortably." This statement implicitly acknowledges 
the distinction between "salary" and "income," but does not resolve the problem that the Director 
described. Also, the regulatory standard is "a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field," not whether the Petitioner's income is sufficient to fund 
research and development. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to satisfy this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained national or international acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We note, further, that while the Petitioner is the co-author of eight published articles, those articles 
were all published more than 35 years before he filed the petition in 2021. In terms of sustained 
acclaim, it bears noting that the Petitioner's articles have been cited only a handful of times in the past 
decade, the most recent citation having appeared in 201 7. The evidence submitted does not show the 
field-wide recognition or sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations demand. Rather, he has 
submitted letters from individuals working with him on product testing and development. Some of 
his products have reached the market, but the record does not show the impact these products have 
had on a national or international scale. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22320416 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 06, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in biochemistry, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive docmnentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by submitting 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner met two of these 
criteria, relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a judge of the work of 
others, but did not meet any of the remaining three criteria he claimed. The Petitioner now submits a 
motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(2)]. We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to his 
authorship of scholarly articles and his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. In 
our previous decision, we agreed with the Director regarding those two criteria, and determined that 
the Petitioner did not meet the following additional criteria that he claimed: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii) Published material about the individual in professional, major trade or other major 
media; and 
• (v) Original scientific contributions of major significance in the field 
On motion, the Petitioner submits hundreds of pages of previously submitted evidence. As stated 
above, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. Because the vast majority 
of the evidence submitted on motion does not include new facts, it will not be considered in this 
decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In support of his claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h )(3 )(i), the Petitioner submits a new letter 
froml I which confirms his inclusion in lin the World 2010-11 and I I in Science and Engineering 2016-17. However, this letter does not include new 
information regarding the inclusion of his biography in these publications, and is accompanied by 
previously submitted evidence regarding I I selection process. As this evidence does not 
include new facts, it will not be considered. 
The Petitioner also submits new evidence relating to his qualification for a lectureship from India's 
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and a senior research fellowship from the Indian Council 
of Medical Research. In general, we will not address issues that were not raised with specificity on 
appeal. The Petitioner did not contest the findings of the Director regarding this evidence or offer 
additional arguments in his appeal brief. We therefore consider this issue to have been waived. See, 
e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence which demonstrates his receipt of a nationally 
or internationally recognized award, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
2 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the published material is about them 
and relates to their work in the field, and that the material was published in one of the qualifying types 
of media. 
We previously considered evidence of the Petitioner's authorship of a book chapter as well as a press 
release regarding that chapter, but concluded that neither were about the Petitioner. On motion, the 
Petitioner now submits additional copies of that same press release which were published on different 
websites. However, as we have already determined that this material is not about him, the fact that it 
was published in other media is not of consequence. No version of the press release makes mention 
of the Petitioner beyond listing him as an author. Further, such marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a product or promoting a service are generally not considered to qualify under this 
criterion. See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices. The same reasoning applies to another press 
release, this one from the University of I which likewise describes a research project 
and lists the Petitioner as a contributor. 
The Petitioner also submits evidence of a paper he co-authored being referred to on the website 
www.malacards.com. The submitted webpages appear to serve as reference material for I I I and provides links to several sources of information. As we stated in our previous decision 
regarding articles which cited to the Petitioner's published work, this material is not about him or any 
of the authors of other referenced material, nor does it emphasize his work over that of others whose 
work is also cited or referenced. 
The newly submitted evidence does not show that material about the Petitioner and his work has been 
published in any of the qualifying types of media. As such, it does not change our previous 
determination that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, they may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits complete copies of several scholarly articles that he co-authored, 
whereas the record previously included only two pages of each of these articles. However, our 
decision on appeal did not raise any issues about the authenticity of the previously submitted evidence. 
Because the complete copies of these articles do not add new evidence of either the originality or the 
significance of the Petitioner's research contributions, they do not meet the requirements of a motion 
to reopen and will therefore not be considered. Other evidence submitted with this motion in support 
of this criterion include a list of the Petitioner's publications and citations from Google Scholar and 
metrics which put those citations into context, all of which had been previously submitted and 
reviewed in our appeal decision. 
3 
The single new piece of evidence submitted in support of this criterion is a letter from 
of the University ot1 I who had also submitted a letter with the 
this time with greater focus on bis development of a a used to study disease Petitioner's appeal. He describes the Petitioner's resear rch much as he did in his pre i 1 ter, but 
and I while at explains that this 
will help to better understand these diseases and test for treatment strategies. He concludes by stating 
that the model "will be used in more studies and uncover key mechanisms of the disease." Although 
I I explains that the Petitioner used this model in his studies of I he does not 
indicate that other researchers other than the Petitioner and his collaborators have used it. While his 
letter indicates that there is potential for thel Ito have a significant impact on the field, it 
does not show that th has already done so. 
Based on our review of the new evidence submitted on motion, we conclude that it does not overcome 
our previous decision that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Apart from the letter froml I the evidence submitted with this motion does not include 
new facts, and thus does not meet the requirements for a motion to reopen. After consideration of that 
evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has met any of the additional evidentiary criteria 
he has asserted, not has he shown that he is otherwise eligible for the requested classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 06, 2024 In Re: 33401643 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athletic trainer and coach, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either through his receipt of a major 
internationally recognized award, or by demonstrating that he meets at least three ofthe ten evidentiary 
criteria set forth in the regulations. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate his entry will substantially benefit the United States. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as an individual with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: they have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim; they seek to continue work in their field of expertise in 
the United States; and their entry to the United States would substantially benefit the country. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a two-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 1 
If a petitioner meets one of these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-392 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding USCIS' two-step review process as 
"consistent with the governing statute and regulation"). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a high-performance trainer and coach in the sport of athletics. He states he has 
worked with track and field athletes of the Venezuelan national team as a staff member of the 
from 2012 until at least 2017. The Petitioner seeks to continue 
his work as an athletic trainer in the United States. 
The Petitioner has neither claimed nor demonstrated his receipt of a major internationally recognized 
award and cannot meet the initial evidence requirement based on a one-time achievement under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He must therefore meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he could meet 
up to eight of the ten criteria, but concluded he satisfied only two, relating to published material about 
him in major media and participating as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner alleges numerous factual and legal errors in the Director's analysis of the 
remaining evidentiary criteria. In part, the Petitioner contends that the Director mischaracterized his 
field or area of expertise in addressing the awards and membership criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and (ii); reached a conclusory determination and improperly introduced derogatory information from 
outside the record in addressing his original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
overlooked evidence and applied an improper standard in evaluating whether he has performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization with a "distinguished reputation" under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's unfavorable determinations 
with respect to several of the evidentiary criteria did not specifically address all the Petitioner's claims 
or evidence, and, in some instances, did not appear to adhere to USCIS regulations and policy guidance 
in explaining the reasons for denial. 
1 If the evidentiary standards do not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R § 204.S(h)( 4). 
2 
An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denying a visa petition. See 
8 C.F.R. 103.3(a)(l)(i). Absent such an explanation, a petitioner is not provided a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision. See, e.g. Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision 
must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity 
to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, because the Director's decision does not provide a 
complete analysis and sufficient basis explaining the reasons for denial, we will withdraw the decision 
and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
1. Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards or Prizes 
The Director concluded the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which 
requires submission of evidence demonstrating his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
awards or prizes for excellence in the field ofendeavor. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
had received several awards as a coach and athletic instructor but noted "[ s ]ince the [petitioner] 
appears to be coming to work in the U.S. as a trainer, the awards won as a coach will not apply." The 
Director further observed that "[ c ]oaching is a different career than athletic trainer" and stated the 
Petitioner "cannot borrow accomplishments earned in another field." 
We note, however, that the terms "coach" and "trainer" have been used interchangeably throughout 
the record to refer to the Petitioner's past work in the field of athletics. Further, his duties have 
consistently been described as including both physical training of individual track and field athletes 
and providing coaching on techniques and strategies designed to improve their performance in their 
specific events. Therefore, we disagree with the Director's determination that coaching and training 
are two completely different fields based on the context provided in the record. Because the Director 
determined that the Petitioner received awards in an unrelated field, the decision did not include a full 
analysis of the evidence submitted under this criterion. On remand, the Director should re-evaluate 
the previously submitted evidence and the Petitioner's appeal and make a new determination as to 
whether he demonstrated his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
2. Memberships in Associations in the Field 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that he is a member of an association in an 
association in his field that requires outstanding achievements of its members. The Director 
acknowledged the Petitioner's evidence that the admitted him as a coach of the Venezuelan 
national team. The Director determined, however, that because the Petitioner intends to work as an 
athletic trainer in the United States, this association "is not in the [petitioner's] field." Based on this 
determination, the Director did not further evaluate the Petitioner's claims and evidence relating to 
this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the occupations of 
athletic coach and athletic trainer are not within the same area of expertise. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, 
and the Petitioner's statements explaining how the evidence supports his eligibility. 
3 
3. Published Materials 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which 
requires submission of published material related to him and his work in the field, and evidence that 
such materials appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The record 
as presently constituted does not support the Director's favorable determination. 
Although the Petitioner submitted a large volume of evidence in support of this criterion, he did not 
provide evidence that any of the submitted materials appeared in a qualifying form of media. Most of 
the evidence was in the form of on line articles, but the record does not contain evidence of the relative 
circulation, readership or viewership of the publications, and as such does not demonstrate that the 
materials appeared in major trade publications or other major media. Further, although the Petitioner 
indicated that he has been interviewed on television and provided transcripts for these claimed 
interviews, he did not provide screenshots or links to the interviews or evidence of the date on which 
they were aired. On remand, the Director is instructed to advise the Petitioner of these evidentiary 
deficiencies and allow him an opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
4. Judging 
The Director also determined, without elaborating, that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence in 
response to the RFE to demonstrate that he has participated as a judge of the work of others in the 
same field, or in an allied field of specialization, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We will withdraw 
the Director's determination. 
The Petitioner claimed that he met this criterion based on his duties as a member of the and 
submitted two letters from officials that specifically address judging activities within this 
organization. One letter, from a member of theI Iboard of coaches, describes "the activities that 
are part of the annual judging process for coaches." However, the letter describes the review and 
oversight functions of the board of coaches, a distinct component within the rather than the 
individual judging responsibilities performed by all trainers and coaches working for the federation. 
The official does not state, and the record does not establish, that the Petitioner was a member 
of the board of coaches or charged with performing the review activities described in this letter. 
The second letter, from the I I general secretary, explains "the judging processes in the 
competition track" and the judging processes that impact administrative decision-making within the 
organization. However, she does not expressly state that the Petitioner has been a participant in these 
activities as a member of the I Icoaching/training staff. has Rather, she states that the has 
"rigorous selection processes in each area" and that the Petitioner, as a coach, "goes through this 
meticulous process every year" to maintain his staff position. As the matter will be remanded, the 
Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and may request that 
the Petitioner clarify the nature of his claimed activities as a judge. 
5. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not sufficiently consider the contents of the recommendation letters provided by athletes, 
4 
coaches, and trainers within the and instead summarily concluded that "the evidence does not 
demonstrate the major significance" of his original contributions. We agree with the Petitioner's 
assertion that it is difficult to discern, based on the Director's decision, what specific letters were 
considered in reaching this determination; the decision only vaguely references "recommendation 
letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically identifying any documents. 
Further, the Director questioned the credibility of a recommendation letter from a Venezuelan athlete, 
noting that USCIS independently reviewed her Wikipedia page and found the Petitioner was not 
identified as her coach. The Petitioner emphasizes that Wikipedia is not a reliable source and that the 
record contains ample evidence that he coached this athlete. We note that if a decision will be 
unfavorable to a petitioner and is based on derogatory information considered by USCIS of which the 
petitioner is unaware, they must be advised of this fact and offered an opportunity to rebut the 
information before the decision is rendered. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). The Director did not 
afford the Petitioner this opportunity. 
On remand, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and the totality of the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's appeal. If the Director intends to rely 
on information that was not submitted by the Petitioner, the Director must advise him ofthis fact prior 
to issuing a new decision. 
6. Leading or Critical Role 
In evaluating whether the Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization with a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted documents "claiming that [he] had a leading or critical 
role for the ____________ However, the Director found that "it does not appear 
[the ] had a distinguished reputation prior to the [petitioner's] alleged tenure with them" because 
the letters indicate that the Venezuelan national team was not consistently winning medals in 
international competition at the time the Petitioner was hired. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the evidence shows that the enjoyed a distinguished reputation 
during his tenure and beyond, and that there is no specific requirement that he demonstrate the 
organization had a distinguished reputation at some earlier date. Further the Petitioner emphasizes 
that the record contains evidence of the organization's "historical legacy" as the national governing 
body of the sport of athletics, its official recognition by the sport's international governing body and 
the International Olympic Committee, its regulatory authority in the sport, and its contributions to the 
development of Venezuela's best track and field athletes. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not provide sufficient analysis of the Petitioner's 
evidence or explanation for concluding that he did not meet this criterion. On remand, the Director is 
instructed to re-evaluate the previously submitted evidence and the arguments and evidence submitted 
on appeal to determine whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 
5 
7. High Salary 
In determining whether the Petitioner established that he has commanded a high salary or significantly 
high remuneration in relation to others in the field under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director 
concluded, in part, that he did not submit sufficient evidence of his past earnings. On appeal,the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by not accepting his employment contract with as 
evidence in support of this criterion, pointing to guidance provided in the USCIS Policy Manual. 
Given that the Petitioner's claim is based on payments he received between 2015 and 201 7, we agree 
with the Director that the employment contract alone did not provide sufficient evidence of his past 
earnings. The Petitioner's assertions on appeal are based on an incomplete reading of the guidance 
provided at 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2(B)(l), which states: 
users does not interpret the phrase "has commanded" to mean that the person must 
have already earned such salary or remuneration in order to meet the criterion. Rather 
a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary or remuneration may 
establish that the person has been able to command such compensation. 
Based on this guidance, a Petitioner may demonstrate eligibility though the submission of a contract 
or job offer letter for prospective employment. However, the Petitioner claims that he earned a high 
salary in the past (between January 2015 and December 2017) and therefore it is reasonable to expect 
him to submit evidence such as tax returns, pay statements or other evidence of past salary or 
remuneration for services corroborating the information in his contract. As noted by the Director, he 
submitted an "income statement" prepared by a Venezuelan public accountant, which indicates that 
the Petitioner earned "professional fees" of$72,000 over a three-year period. However, this statement 
does not identify the source(s) of the Petitioner's income, nor is it consistent with the amount offered 
in the employment contract from for the same period. 
Nevertheless, the Director ultimately concluded that users could not consider the Petitioner's prior 
earnings as an athletic coach because his intended work in in the United States will be as a trainer 
rather than as a coach. As discussed above, we disagree with the Director's decision to make this 
distinction between "coach" and "trainer" based on the specific facts presented in this case. According 
to the terms ofthe Petitioner's employment contract with he was hired to "give training courses," 
to prepare athletes "technically and physically" for competition, and to "participate in the programs 
of. .. training sports talents in the discipline of Athletics." Therefore, the Director erroneously 
determined that he could not rely on his earnings with to meet this criterion. As the matter will 
be remanded, the Director may request additional evidence relating to this criterion prior to issuing a 
new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As the 
Director's previous RFE did not address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or provide the 
Petitioner with notice of derogatory information from outside the record, they should issue a new RFE 
in accordance with 8 e.F.R. § 103.2(b )(8) and 103.2(b )(16)(i). If, after review, the Director determines 
that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the 
6 
totality of the record, evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field endeavor. See section 203(b)(a)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 6, 2024 In Re: 33346442 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.S(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner has a background in the sale, investment, design and implementation ofprojects related 
to housing and other buildings. He has founded multiple companies in his home country and he 
proposes to continue his work as an entrepreneur in the real estate development field in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met six of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to published material and 
performing in a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes 
or awards, membership, original contributions, or high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria the Director denied except for the prizes or 
awards criterion. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we come to the same conclusion as 
the Director. 
1. Documentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion and the 
Petitioner doesn't contest those findings on appeal. We consider this criterion to be abandoned or 
waived. Matter of F-C-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 788, 789 n.3, 791 n.6 (BIA 2024) (finding issues not 
challenged on appeal are waived). 
2. Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
The Petitioner provided articles from multiple news sources and the Director determined that the 
Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion. We will not disturb that conclusion. 
3. Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The 
Petitioner provided evidence and claims related to several companies the Petitioner founded. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we do not disagree 
with that decision. 
4. Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. In arguing 
his eligibility on appeal, the Petitioner presents new claims that he did not advance before the Director. 
First, he refers to the USCIS Policy Manual for entrepreneurs and what that resource reflects they can 
provide as direct evidence under this criterion focusing on outside investment in their companies. See 
generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Before the 
Director, the Petitioner only provided profit and loss related information for his companies, with no 
real data on the types of investment from outside sources. Second, he now also claims he should be 
able to offer comparable evidence relating to his equity holding in his businesses, as the USCIS Policy 
Manual also describes as a possibility for entrepreneurs under the comparable evidence regulatory 
provision. He also did not present this claim to the Director. 
Because both the regulation and the Director's request for evidence put the Petitioner on notice and 
gave him a reasonable opportunity to provide these arguments and this evidence, we will not consider 
it for the first time on appeal. See Matter ofFurtado, 28 I&N Dec. 794, 801-02 (BIA 2024) (declining 
to consider new evidence on appeal when the filing party was put on notice of the required evidence 
and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial); see also Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533,537 (BIA 1988). 
These are all the claims the Petitioner offers for this criterion on appeal. 
Considering this, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. 
5. Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner provided claims and evidence related to three organizations. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion, as these entities did not require 
outstanding achievements as an essential condition for admission to membership. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he/she is a member of an association in his/her field. Second, the Petitioner 
3 
must demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally 
recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the 
achievements are outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a 
condition of eligibility for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner limits his arguments to one organization, the Bulgarian Investment and 
Construction Association (BISA) and he points to their Articles of Association as the primary 
supporting evidence. As a result, he has abandoned his claims relating to the other two entities he 
claimed before the Director. F-C-S-, 28 I&N Dec. at 789 n.3, 791 n.6. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts BISA requires outstanding achievements of its regular members based on 
the requirement that its regular membership level candidates must provide evidence of an investment 
in or have constructed and put into operation, a building comprised of an area that is one thousand 
square meters or more in size accompanied by a certificate that the "trader" is not bankrupt and is not 
subject to insolvency proceedings. 
But the Petitioner does not describe what evidence supports his assertion that this is an outstanding 
achievement. These unsupported statements have little evidentiary value and will not satisfy the 
Petitioner's burden of proof See Matter ofMariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 673 (BIA 2022); 
see also Matter ofAzrag, 28 I&N Dec. 784, 787 (BIA 2024). The Petitioner offers other external 
material relating to BISA, but none is as salient as the organization's own stated requirements. And 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that its requirements constitute outstanding achievements as a 
condition of its regular members. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements ofthis 
criterion. 
6. Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, art1St1c, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 586 U.S. 392,415 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner proposes he will continue his work as an entrepreneur in the real estate development 
field. As a result, he must demonstrate the requisite level of contributions in the real estate 
development field. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this 
criterion. After discussing some of the recommendation letters he offered, the Director indicated that 
4 
"there is no doubt the beneficiary provides valuable knowledge and success to the field; however, his 
work has not made an original major significant contribution to the field." Also relating to the letters, 
the Director noted they lacked "specificity regarding how his achievements have affected the field or 
how the asserted achievements are being reproduced within the field. Further, the petitioner has not 
established how others emulate his techniques or have widely applied his results." 
Appealing that determination, the Petitioner points to one of the letters the Director discussed from 
The Petitioner's appeal brief quotes from the same portion of Mr. I Iletter 
that the Directorquoted and discussed in the denial decision. Mr. I lstated: 
While many of his projects have received national and international awards and/or 
nominations for innovative design and unmatched quality, one of his most notable 
contributions to the Bulgarian economy, as well as to the the [sic] growth and 
popularisation of Bulgarian tourism and residential properties market, is his outstanding 
contribution in connection with market research, analysis, and input in connection with 
major legislative initiatives. His input, opinion letters, and tireless advocacy for raising 
the standards in real estate development, as well as balancing the needs of the respective 
districts and municipalities with the market demands and international standards, have 
not only made him a respected leader in the real estate development field but a major 
contributor to many key legislative initiatives in Bulgaria. 
The Petitioner then draws some tangentially connected aspects relating to BTSA having an effect in 
the industry, but we are not prepared to make the same logical leap without more cardinal evidence 
adequately attributing those improvements to market research and analysis, and to legislation 
initiatives. We agree with the Director that while the Petitioner has attained a certain level of 
achievement in his home country relating to real estate development, the record simply does not 
support the contention that those have resulted in a sufficient influence within the field. And having 
the ability to influence a legislative body is distinctly different from exerting one's influence that not 
only resulted in legislative changes, but also changes that had a significant impact in the real estate 
development field. 
The Petitioner closes his legislative improvement arguments noting he was the point of contact at 
BISA in connection with a legislative proposal. He generally points to "letters" in the record to bolster 
his claims, without identifying any particular author or set of authors supporting his contention that 
they explain the nature and significance of his contributions. The Petitioner alleges the Director did 
not give the evidence its proper weight, overlooked a significant portion ofthe evidence, and provided 
a general and unfounded explanation of why he did not fulfill this criterion's requirements. 
Considering the almost 800-page record contains numerous letters throughout, it is the Petitioner's 
responsibility to identify the specific evidence he references to support his claims. It is the filing 
party's duty and burden to inform us of what errors the lower entity committed and how their claims 
and evidence satisfy which eligibility requirements. Nolasco-Amaya v. Garland, 14 F.4th 1007, 
1012-13 (9th Cir. 2021) (citing Toquero v. INS, 956 F.2d 193, 196 n.4 (9th Cir. 1992)). 
Commensurate with that burden is the responsibility for explaining the significance of proffered 
evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). Filing parties should not 
submit large quantities of evidence without notifying the appellate body ofthe specific documentation 
5 
that corroborates their claims within such large quantities. Doing so places an undue burden on the 
appellate body to search through the documentation without the aid of the filing party's 
knowledge. Nolasco-Amaya v. Garland, 14 F.4th at 1012-13. 
Even though the Petitioner has been successful in his endeavors, we conclude he has not shown his 
work has been unusually influential, widely applied by the field, or has otherwise risen to the level of 
contributions of major significance. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18328606 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 07, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -fust on the Petitioner's motion, and later treating 
an untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v)(B)(J). Both times, the 
Director again denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, concluding that, although 
she met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, she had not established eligibility in the final 
merits analysis. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application o_flaw or policy. The requirements 
of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our appellate decision, we noted that the Petitioner asserts that she "has obtained the highest level of 
fame in her nativel land international recognition in pop singing." The record shows the Petitioner 
performed on the televised! 
1 lcompyition program. Media interviews in 2009 and 2014 mention 
she worked as a "specialist" at 's Ministry of Culture but provide few details about this 
employment. The Petitioner also acted in the filml I (2015), but the record does not indicate 
that she has continued to pursue acting work. We also noted that the record shows the Petitioner has spent 
an increasing amount of time in the United States since 2015. Her most recent entry was in 2017 as a 
B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure. She later changed status to an O-lB nonimmigrant with 
extraor,inary ability in the arts through a petition filed b~ I and operates 
a studio where she provides voice lessons to children. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In our decision 
dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she also satisfied the criterion relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Because we concluded that the Petitioner satisfied 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, we conducted a final merits determination in which we 
reviewed the record as a whole, including the evidence the Petitioner submitted under other claimed 
criteria.1 As discussed above, in a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 Based on this review, 
we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not overcome our prior 
decision. 
1 During the course of the proceeding, the Petitioner had also claimed to meet the criteria relating to membership in 
associations at § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), display at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that 
USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the 
petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant 
classification). 
2 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our evaluation of the submitted media coverage about 
her and relating to her work. The Petitioner maintains that she submitted "a plethora of media 
coverage" and "[t]he fact thatl lmedia continues to reach [her] is already an indication of the 
continued interest froml I population for her" and "proof of the sustained acclaim" she enjoys 
"as a topl I pop singer." Our appellate decision focused, in part, on several articles the 
Petitioner submitted that specifically relate to her and her work as one indicator of whether she has 
enjoyed "a career of acclaimed work" in the field as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). In our final merits determination, we concluded that the record, irluding I 
media reporting on her and her activities, indicates that the Petitioner had a successful career in 
but it does not establish that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim up to the time of filing in July 
2018. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner has not established on motion that we misapplied 
the law or USCIS policy in reaching this conclusion based on the evidence she submitted. 
For instance, as discussed in our decision, in a translated September 2015 interview, conducted shortly 
after a two-month visit to the United States, the Petitioner stated: 'I I is too small, you can become 
~with one clip and one song. In America everyone sings .... After [a television appearance in 
L___J, when I was walking in the streets everyone asked me [for] autographs and it is not happening 
in [the] USA." In the same interview, the Petitioner explained that she found work performing in I I lounges, and promotional fliers reproduced in the record corroborate this public 
statement, advertising her performances at small venues such as restaurants, coffee shops, and cultural 
centers. We noted that this interview took place almost three years before the petition's filing date, and 
the record does not show that her career gained momentum afterward. Although the Petitioner appeared 
onl I's version of Dancing with the Stars in 2016, the record does not document any comparably 
high-profile activity since then. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues on motion that although she "has risen to the very top of the field of 
pop singing in I I and not in the USA" we must also "take into the fact whatever achievements 
[the Petitioner] has reached in the USA while she has been here." Our appellate decision did examine 
the Petitioner's most recent professional accomplishments and concluded that the record does not show 
that she has earned sustained national acclaim in the United States. Rather, we f01ed ~a~:~: f ecognition 
in the United States appears to be largely confined to the I O I community in .......... ~_......... We noted 
thatl jnedia continued to interview her after she relocated to the United States, but in those 
3 
interviews, she discusses staying at home with a new child, teaching singing lessons, and singing at 
corporate events. The Petitioner has not documented any U.S. media coverage apart from local,I I 
language media. The Petitioner has not shown on motion that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy 
in reaching this determination based on the documentation submitted . 
For example, one such article from 2017 discussed the Petitioner's achievements between 2001 and 2015 
and stated that "[h ]er dream is to conquer I I . . . . Meanwhile she shares her mastery with I I children, participates in charity concerts, and recently she performed at [all [estival." 
We also noted that the Petitioner sang at the opening of a fashion show inl 11 I media 
reported that the Petitioner "performed atl !Fashion Week," but photographs from the event 
show the legend 1 I Fashion Week." We found that the Petitioner had not established that the two 
names correspond to the same event, or that one is a part of the other. Although on motion the Petitioner 
provides screenshots from the website of§ashion Week, to show the two "are very much 
related events," these items show only that Fashion Week organizes short film and fashion 
festivals including inl !during Fashion Week, not that one is fart oftr other. 
Further, we noted that the Petitioner toldl I interviewers that her performance at Fashion 
Week generated "a huge response," but the record does not include any U.S. media coverage of the event. 
Moreover, we determined that although the Petitioner's other recent performances have been tied to I I cultural events, some of which have been at well-known locations, such as the I I I ! the Petitioner had not shown that these appearances generated attention 
at a level consistent with national or international acclaim, or that her participation was highlighted either 
before or after the events. For instance, a printout from the I l's website discusses a 
performance by the I I but the Petitioner's name does not appear in the article. 
Further, the Petitioner asserts on motion that she was asked to act in the movie I I "to 
capitalize on her popularity and reach a wider audience," and she provides a screenshot from IMDbPro 
of the cast listing forl I showing she performed the role of I I While our appellate 
decision acknowledged that the Petitioner acted in the film, our final merits analysis did not further 
discuss it as we noted the record does not indicate that she has continued to pursue acting work. 
Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to 
policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Cf 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006).3 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal 
issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") 
Finally, the Petitioner argues on motion that her prior approval as an 0-1 nonimmigrant 
of extraordinary ability in the arts "as a pop singer ... popular among I I' automatically 
establishes eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability classification. Extraordinary ability in the 
field of arts in the nonimmigrant context, however, means distinction, which is not the same as 
3 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board oflmmigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(b)(l) , 
which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the 
prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority. " These requirements are fundamentally similar to those 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) , and therefore the same logic applies. 
4 
sustained national or international acclaim. Section 101(a)(46) of the Act explicitly modifies the 
criteria for the 0-1 extraordinary ability classification in such a way that makes the nonimmigrant 
0-1 criteria less restrictive for an individual in the arts, and thus less restrictive than the criteria for 
immigrant classification pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, while USCIS has 
previously approved an 0-1 nonimmigrant petition for the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, and 
ultimately concluded that while the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria, she did 
not establish the required sustained national or international acclaim for this highly restrictive 
classification. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence before us at the time of our decision or that it was based 
on a misapplication of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements for a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss her motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10320524 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 8, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art critic and scholar, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a lecturer atl I University in I I China. He 
earned a Ph.D. in art history in 2015 from !University. Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner incorrectly states that the Director concluded that he did not meet any of the 
initial evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). To the contrary, in denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
published material in certain media at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although we agree with the Director that the Petitioner authored scholarly 
articles in professional publications, we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the 
published material criterion, discussed later. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets two additional criteria. After reviewing all the evidence 
in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The Petitioner 
contends that he meets this criterion based on articles published in the print versions of Cultural 
Monthly, Times of Malta, and Beijing Youth Weekly. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.1 For the reasons outlined below, the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
2 
documentation submitted does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record contains an article about the Petitioner related to his work as an art historian appearing in 
the02019 edition of the print magazine Cultural Monthly. The article includes an interview with 
the Petitioner and identifies the author of the material. The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot 
from www.baike.baidu.com indicating there are print and digital versions of Cultural Monthly, and 
its "distribution scope" includes libraries, universities, museums, embassies, and "famous collectors, 
critics, artists and art investors at home and abroad all over the country." However, the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence, such as circulation statistics for the print version of the publication and its 
intended audience, that might establish that Cultural Monthly, described on www.baike.baidu.com as 
covering "literature and art, non-material cultural heritage, cultural tourism, cultural creativity, folk 
customs, painting, and calligraphy appreciation, national brands, old, animation games, constructive 
and humanistic combination of the characteristics," is a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or other major medium in China.2 
The Petitioner also submitted an article appearing in the print publication Times of Malta. This article 
is not about the Petitioner; it was written about the 2018 exhibition I I by watercolor artist I I at.___ _____ _. cultural center in I I Malta. The article states that the 
exhibition was curated by the Petitioner and is on display, but the Petitioner is not otherwise mentioned 
in the article. The article also discusses art critic I l's impressions of the exhibition. Articles 
that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding 
a show are not about the actor). In addition, the article does not identify an author. The inclusion of 
the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Further, the record contains a screenshot from www.eurotopics.net regarding 2017 
circulation statistics for the print and digital versions of Times of Malta overall, rather than for the 
print version of the publication. 
Similarly, although the article in Beijing Youth Weekly contains a brief synopsis of the Petitioner's 
book regarding early modern American art, I I the art._ic-le-is-n-ot_a_b_o_u_t_h_im ___ l_n_f-ac_t_, -th_e_P_e_t-iti-o-ne_r_i_s_n_e_v___,er 
mentioned in the article. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires the published material 
to be about the alien relating to his work rather than articles about his work. Again, articles that are 
not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. Here, the Petitioner provided an article only 
about his work instead of an article about him relating to his work. In addition, the article from 
Beijing Youth Weekly does not identify an author. Further, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from 
www.baike.baidu.com which states that Beijing Youth Weekly has a circulation rate of 
"8 people/copy," but did not provide evidence showing how this circulation compares to other 
Chinese publications. 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. at 7 (noting that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics and show who the intended audience of the publication is.) 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted several letters of support discussing his work 
as an art critic and scholar. The Director considered this documentation but found that it was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner 
must establish that not only has he made contributions that were original but that they have been of 
major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen 
to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of support from 
colleagues in the field were insufficient to meet this criterion. 3 However, as discussed below, the 
letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
,__ _________ __, a professor of art history and the Petitioner's co-author and mentor, 
describes him as "one of the most important young art historians/critics/curators in China" who has 
"published widely in important academic journals in China on both modern Western art and 
contemporary Chinese art." Although she and,__ _____ ~the Petitioner's doctoral advisor, 
claim that the Petitioner's aforementioned book presents the first discussion of early American modern 
art in China, they do not provide detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact 
the Petitioner's work has had on the overall field, or how it otherwise resulted in a contribution of 
major significance in the field. For instance, the record does not show that the Petitioner's book has 
widely influenced others in the field of art history or art criticism, or that his original work otherwise 
constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. I I further asserts that the 
Petitioner's book "will also substantially enrich the domestic research on Western modern art." The 
Petitioner did not establish, however, how his work already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
,__ _______ ~General Secretary of the0world Congress of Art History ..... I __ _. 
2016), confirms that the Petitioner was a I I chair and participated in the overall 
organization of the event's academic work. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has 
not established that his participation at a conference by itself demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
The Petitioner also provided two letters from~---------~ of Ran Dian magazine, 
who confirms that the Petitioner has been a member of the publication's senior editorial team since 
2012 and calls him "an exceptionally accomplished art critic/scholar." In additionj I 
an art curator who worked with the Petitioner at Ran Dian magazine, provides that as a Chinese scholar 
of Western Modernism the Petitioner has an "unconventional viewpoint" that has enabled him to 
produce "some important scholarship" relating to the "government-sponsored official art system in 
China." While the evidence shows that the Petitioner contributed to Ran Dian's activities, it does not 
show the unusual influence or great impact of his work in the overall field beyond that publication. 4 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact the Petitioner's work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the scholarly articles criterion, he does not meet the 
criteria regarding published material and original contributions of major significance. While he argues 
and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to judging at C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.7 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have al ready influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 {BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 08, 2023 In Re: 28423802 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professional soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either through 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by satisfying at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professional soccer player who transitioned to professional coaching after 
his retirement. He 
has served as the head coach and technical director of professional soccer teams in 
Venezuela, Ecuador, and Colombia, and as the head coach of the Venezuelan men's U20 and senior 
national teams between 2000 and 2007. The record reflects that, in addition to coaching, he has been 
asked to lend his expertise to soccer development projects undertaken by the Venezuelan Olympic 
Committee and CONMEBOL (the South American Football Confederation, the governing body ofthe 
sport in South America), and to serve as a lecturer on coaching techniques at various conferences. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), 
(v), (viii), and (ix), based on his receipt of nationally recognized awards, his memberships in 
associations in his field, published material about him, his performance as a judge ofthe work ofothers 
in the field, his original contributions to the sport, his leading or critical roles with organizations that 
enjoy a distinguished reputation, and the comparatively high salaries he has commanded as a coach. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by demonstrating his 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national 
or international experts, and by providing evidence ofhis participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers 
in his field ofexpertise. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv). The record supports this determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence he submitted in 
support of several additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He places particular emphasis 
on the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence of his performance in leading 
or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner held a leading or critical role within the Venezuelan Football Federation 
as the long-time head coach of the Venezuelan men's national team and acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted supporting evidence intended to establish the distinguished reputation of the 
federation and team. However, the Director ultimately dismissed this evidence after determining that 
the Petitioner did not submit sufficiently demonstrate that the submitted newspaper, magazine and 
televised coverage of the team were published in major media outlets, a requirement that does not 
2 
appear in the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director therefore 
found insufficient evidence to establish the distinguished reputation ofthe organization that employed 
the Petitioner in a leading or critical role. 
The record contains evidence that the Venezuelan Football Federation is recognized as the national 
governing body of the sport by football's international governing body (FIFA) and that the national 
team, comprised of top players representing their country in international competition, enjoyed 
favorable domestic and international media coverage during the Petitioner's tenure as coach, with 
much of the team's unprecedented success attributed to him. We conclude the previously submitted 
evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that he meets the initial evidence requirement for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria. He has therefore overcome the basis for the denial ofhis petition. 1 However, as noted above, 
meeting the initial evidence requirement does not suffice to establish eligibility for this classification. 
We will therefore remand the matter to the Director to make a final merits determination in the first 
instance. 
In doing so, the Director should consider all evidence submitted in support ofthe petition to determine 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), 
(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. This review should include evidence that was not found 
to meet the requirements of any individual criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For example, the record indicates that the Beneficiary has been showcased in books documenting the 
rise of soccer's popularity in Venezuela since the early 2000s, has been profiled by CNN Espanol, and 
was featured in a documentary about the Venezuelan men's national teams that competed in 
international competition during his tenure as the team's coach. While the Director determined that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the criterion related to published materials at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), this evidence is nevertheless relevant to an evaluation of the Petitioner's claim that 
his achievements and contributions have been recognized in his field and that he has achieved national 
or international acclaim as a coach. 
The Director's review should also consider the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's 
appeal. After reviewing the record in its entirety, the Director shall issue a new decision. 
1 Because he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary standards, a final merits determination is required under 
Kazarian. Accordingly, we need not review the Director's findings regarding the criteria relating to the Petitioner's 
awards, published materials about him, his original contributions to the sport, and his past earnings as a coach. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary 
to their decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach an alternative 
appellate issue where an applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested relief). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 17811592 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a stage actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, which we dismissed. The matter is now before us on an 
untimely motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I.MOTION REQUIREMENTS
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§103.5(a)(2). In addition, a motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and
be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an
incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2)
establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time
of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit.
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)( l )(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. To merit reopening, a petitioner must not only 
meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. We 
cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, through counsel, acknowledges that her motion is untimely. Ordinarily, a petitioner 
must file a motion to reopen or reconsider no later than 33 days after the date of the decision for which 
that petitioner seeks reconsideration. 1 Under special rules that USCIS implemented during the current 
COVID-19 pandemic, a petitioner may generally file a motion up to 63 days after the issuance of a 
mailed decision. 2 The Petitioner's filing arrived 77 days after we mailed our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this period expires may be excused in the 
discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the 
control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). For the reasons discussed below, 
we conclude that the Petitioner filed her motion to reopen late and has not demonstrated that the 
untimely filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 
In a statement accompanying the late motion, counsel for the Petitioner states: 
In March 2020, USCIS began extending flexibilities for responding to certain motions 
and decisions as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic allowing for an 
additional sixty (60) calendar days after the response due date. See Exhibit BB for a 
copy of the USCIS notice released on September 11, 2020 regarding the extension for 
responding to agency requests for notices issued between March 1, 2020 and January 
1, 2021. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of the USCIS alert outlining the extended COVID-19 flexibilities, 
which clearly states that USCIS will consider a Form I-290B received up to 60 days from the date of 
the decision before we take action. The Petitioner, however, argues that the notice is misleading 
because it conflates the period for responding to a Form I-290B with the response period for other 
agency notices and requests, such as requests for evidence, which are afforded a longer response 
period. Consequently, the Petitioner asks us to excuse the motion's untimely filing. 
As noted above, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B 
to account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, and the USCIS alert 
outlining the response due date specifically states, in a sentence distinct from those discussing the 
response period for other agency requests and notices, that a Form I-290B must be filed within 60 days 
of the date the decision was issued. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing was reasonable and beyond her control. The 
Petitioner's excuse for the untimely filing of the motion does not demonstrate that she has met this 
burden, and we will not exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his motion to reopen. While 
we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the agency guidance on COVID-19 flexibilities was 
confusing, the deadline for filing an appeal or motion on Form I-290B under the extended COVID-19 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) and 103.8(b). 
2 USCIS Alert, "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," (Jun. 24, 2021), 
https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-extends- flexibility- for-responding-to-agency-requests-4 (last visited Sep. 9, 
2021); see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b) (adding three days to filing deadlines ifUSCIS serves decisions or notices by mail). 
2 
flexibilities is specifically and clearly outlined in the USCIS alert referenced by the Petitioner, and we 
are not persuaded by the Petitioner's assertions to the contrary. 
The motion to reopen will be dismissed as untimely filed, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Because there is no comparable authority extended to an untimely filed motion to reconsider, the 
Petitioner's untimely motion to reconsider will also be dismissed. See id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen and motion to reconsider was filed untimely. Thus, the motions do not meet 
applicable requirements. We must therefore dismiss them. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 18315172 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 9, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neurology , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in neurobiology au I University, China, in 2010. Some of her doctoral 
studies also took place at the University ofi I. Following an associate professorship, also 
atl I the Petitioner entered the United States in May 2019 as a J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor to 
work as a research scholar atc=J 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
of the work of others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all three claimed criteria, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that she satisfies this criterion 
because she has made several important discoveries in her field, described in highly-cited scholarly 
articles. In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the citation of the Petitioner's work, but 
concluded that the Petitioner did not show "the reason the citations are notable or the impact the 'notable' 
citations have had on the field as a whole." The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's submission 
of reference letters, but concluded that these letters are not "preexisting, independent, and objective 
evidence" of the significance of the Petitioner's work. As explained below, we disagree with the 
Director's conclusions, to some extent. 
At the time the Petitioner filed the petition, the Google Scholar database showed over 1000 citations of 
her published articles, with four articles having been cited over 100 times each. The U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Manual states "a goodly number" of such citations "may be 
probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 1 Hundreds more 
1 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
citations have appeared more recently. These newest citations do not establish eligibility at the time of 
filing, but they do speak to the field's ongoing reliance on the cited works. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Nevertheless, 
the record does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice 
to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final 
merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence 
to determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
When considering the evidence submitted to show the Petitioner's acclaim and recognition in the field, 
the Director must consider whether or not the record corroborates assertions both from the Petitioner and 
in letters written specifically to support the petition. For example, an associate editor of the Journal of 
Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism claims "we only invite extraordinary and top scientists to review our 
manuscripts." An associate editor of CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics claims the journal invited the 
Petitioner to review manuscripts "due to her extraordinary research ability and her outstanding 
reputation." The record lacks objective documentary support for these claims. 
Some messages inviting the Petitioner to review manuscripts include this passage: "If you are unable to 
find the time to referee for us we would value your recommendation of one of your colleagues or of any 
expert in the field." There is no reference to any credentials or level of achievement apart from subject 
matter expertise. Without objective evidence to show that the journal publishers limit their peer review 
opportunities to recognized and acclaimed researchers, the Petitioner's peer review work does not 
establish the acclaim and recognition required for the classification she seeks. 
Moreover, a curriculum vitae in the record shows that the Petitioner's doctoral advisor is an "editorial 
board member for 13 professional journals," including both of the journals named above. That advisor 
signed several of the peer review invitations from CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics. This close 
involvement by the Petitioner's mentor appears to have direct and significant consequences regarding 
claims as to how the Petitioner came to be a peer reviewer for those journals. The Director must keep 
such factors in mind when weighing the record for the final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18053708 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional bodybuilding athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, she did not 
establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a professiona~ I athlete and coach. She states that 
she intends to continue competing and coaching in the sport in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that she met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional 
publications or major media, and judging the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in her field, leading or critical roles with organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation, and high salary in relation to others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (viii) and (ix). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that she met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
analysis fails to address most of the evidence she submitted and should be overturned or remanded for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the final merits analysis is lacking a detailed discussion 
of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence 
relating to seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly 
addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined she had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. Such evidence included multiple expert opinion letters 
that address her standing in the field, evidence related to her professional memberships, and evidence 
of her roles and contributions as a coach and athlete. Because the Director did not consider any of this 
evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated her eligibility for the requested classification. 
Further, the decision reflects that the Director applied an incorrect standard in evaluating the 
Petitioner's awards and media coverage in the final merits determination. As noted, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had received nationally or internationally recognized awards and that 
she had submitted published materials about her in major media. With respect to the awards, the 
Director concluded that they "do not establish that the [Petitioner's] work influenced the field as a 
whole." Similarly, in discussing the published materials about the Petitioner, the Director stated that 
the evidence does not "show how the published material about [her] work influenced the field" and 
that the media attention she received does not show how she has made "contributions of . . a 
compelling interest." 
In reaching these conclusions the Director appears to have applied standards applicable to the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence that an individual's original 
contributions in their field have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, have provoked 
widespread commentary in the field of endeavor, or have otherwise been of major significance in the 
field. The Petitioner is not required to demonstrate in the final merits analysis that the awards she 
received in athletic competitions are indicative of "influence" in her field, that published materials 
about her in the media reflect that she has made "contributions of ... a compelling interest," or that 
such media articles "influenced the field." 
In addition, we observe that the Director's analysis of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) was not sufficient to apprise her of any deficiencies he observed in the submitted 
evidence. The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her membership in the I I 
Professional League as well as the Russian I I federation, and she submitted various types 
of evidence in support of her claim that her memberships satisfy this criterion. In denying the petition, 
the Director states that the Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in "thee=] and the 
I I' and concluded, without additional explanation or discussion of the evidence that "the listed 
associations do not require outstanding achievements as an essential condition for admission to 
membership." 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
3 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for all the reasons discussed above, the 
Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in 
support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Further, as the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria, the 
Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17570790 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, I I film actress, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement through either a one-time 
achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of the criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner isl I film actress who has appeared in many films and videos. The evidence 
shows that she has received severall I industry awards and been nominated for others. She 
states that she intends to continue working in this field as an actress in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner initially claimed to be a recipient of major, internationally recognized awards based 
upon her receipt of the.__ _____ ___,' award in 2015 and 2016, as well as wins in other categories 
in later years. However, the Director concluded that these awards did not qualify as major, 
internationally recognized awards, and the Petitioner does not challenge this decision with any 
specificity or offer additional arguments on appeal. We therefore consider this issue to be abandoned. 
See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's 
claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x ). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in her field, and published media about her and her work in the field. After review, we 
agree with those conclusions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts her previous claims that she also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to a leading or critical role, the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and 
2 
commercial success in the performing arts.1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that the record does not support a conclusion that she meets the requirements of any of these criteria, 
and thus does not meet the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In his decision to deny the Petitioner's petition, the Director concluded that this criterion applies only 
to the display of physical works of art such as sculptures and paintings, not to musical or acting 
performances. He relied for this interpretation upon the district court decision in Negro-Plumpe v. 
Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008). However, in contrast to the broad 
precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court, the AAO is not bound to follow 
the published decision of a United States district court in cases arising within the same district. See 
Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision 
will be given due consideration when it is properly before the AAO; however, the analysis does not 
have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. Notably, the plain language of this criterion does 
not specify a particular form that a Petitioner's work must take in order to meet this criterion, only that 
it be displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase. 2 We therefore withdraw that aspect of the 
Director's decision. 
The Petitioner responded to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) by highlighting evidence that 
her image appeared on billboards promoting an industry convention inl I as well as on box 
covers for DVDs of her movies. On appeal, she adds that her films and videos have appeared on 
streaming services, television, and at various exhibitions, such as thel I awards and trade 
show. However, in neither of these responses has she explained or established why these should be 
considered to be artistic in nature. We note that in her RFE response, the word "artistic" was used 
only in the title of the section addressing this criterion, not to specifically refer to any of the displays 
of her movies, whereas evidence was submitted under a different criterion regarding the commercial 
value of the appearance of her work on streaming services, websites, and DVDs. 
As for the conventions and award shows, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner served as a I I for several of the I I conventions inl I which included being personally 
available to take pictures with and sign autographs for attendees, and on one occasion accepted an 
award via Facetime. Similarly, for thd !convention and award show inl O I, she appeared 
on promotional material for the event. But while the evidence states that these conventions included 
live performances, autograph booths, and product exhibitions, it does not show that the Petitioner's 
movies were shown at these venues. Further, even if the movies, or snippets of the movies, were 
shown, these events have not been shown to be artistic in nature, but rather are focused on the 
1 As with her claim to have received a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner also does not specifically 
contest the findings of the Director relating to two additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (vi). For the 
same reason her claim to a major, internationally recognized award has been abandoned, we will also consider her claims 
to those criteria abandoned. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, stating that in 
the first step of the two-step adjudication of petitions under this classification, USCIS officers should dete1mine only if the 
evidence objectively meets the regulatory criteria. 
3 
promotion of actors, products, and business in th _______ ____, industry. Therefore, for all of 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a role which was leading or critical for 
an organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. If a petitioner claims to have served in a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
alien is ( or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or 
was), in fact, leading. On the other hand, if a critical role is claimed, the evidence must establish that 
the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the 
petitioner's performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the petitioner's 
role, but rather the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 3 
The Petitioner initially submitted letters from several businesses in the rdustryl in support 
of this criterion, including! I .__ _______ ___. and Evidence 
was also submitted regarding her activities for other companies, including .__ _______ ____, I ll I, and I I In responding to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner stated that 
she "stand[s] by our original submission." The Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
established that she played a qualifying role for these organizations, or that any of them have a 
distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that she meets this criterion based on her role with most of these 
organizations, and submits new evidence pertaining to these and other establishments. While she 
refers to section 3. 8(b) of the AA O Practice Manual for the proposition that we will accept new 
evidence on appeal, we note that she specifically declined to submit such evidence when it was 
requested by the Director. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the 
evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept 
evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In addition, the majority of this new evidence is dated 
after the filing of the petition, and either relates to events that occurred after that date or to an unknown 
date. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
We will therefore limit our review to the evidence in the record at the time of the Director's decision. 
This evidence includes a letter froml I project organizer for I I who 
verifies that the Petitioner was featured "in the past several conventions" as a •I l,, melgl 
that she had a booth at the convention and worked with the company to promote the convention. I lalso writes that the Petitioner was selected to moderate the main stage at the convention. 
However, she does not indicate that the Petitioner acted as a leader, either for the convention or the 
company itself, or that her role as a I I was critical to any success that the company may 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 
have enjoyed. A webpage which the Petitioner states is forl I shows pictures of more than 
60 actors, and thereby detracts from any claim that she held a leading position for the company. 
Another letter was written by I I CEO ofl l who indicates that his 
company worked with the Petitioner to create figurines I I of her for sale, along with 
other I I actresses. He states that the 3D model of the Petitioner is "one of our top selling 
items." But other than serving as a model and allowing herself to be scanned and photographed, 
presumably for a licensing fee, he does not state that the Petitioner played a critical role for the 
company, and there is no suggestion that she acted as a leader in this role. 4 
In support of her role withl I the Petitioner initiall submitted a letter from its CEO, I I He writes that the company, a producer of DVDs, works most frequently 
with the Petitioner in producing feature length films. ,__ __ _,adds that the Petitioner's DVDs are 
"the most popular and most viewed," and that the company has "sold many of DVDs featuring" her. 
We note that an article posted on the website! I states that the Petitioner and her husband 
founded and own this company, which it describes as a holding company, as well as its subsidiary 
~--------~The article also quotes the Petitioner as explaining that at the time (October 
2017) the company consisted of she and her husband and three other employees. This evidence is 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner plays a leading or critical role forl I 
However, the Petitioner has not established thatl I has a distinguished reputation.D 
states in his letter that the company produced IO DVDs in 2017, and "is currently building 
s biggest B2C (business to cons~ website, B2B 
~(_b_u_s-in_e_s_s_t_o_b_u_s-in_e_s_s )-d-i-st-n-.b-u-t1-. o-n-p-la_,tform, and is highly invested in~ biggest~ 
I companies." However, these statements are not supported by independent, documentary 
~ev_i_d_e_n-ce __ _.A page from the website I I shows several DVDs featuring the Petitioner as 
listed for sale, but this evidence does not speak to the company's re utation beyond confirming its 
production of a small number of DVDs. Further, the article on comments upon the 
Petitioner's reputation, which it indicates led to the foundation of but not on the 
company's reputation. The evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that~ _____ _, or its 
subsidiary! I has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also continues to assert that she plays a leading or critical role forl ,I which 
she describes as ' " The Au ust 18 2017 
article og I described above states that is "the official s okes erson fo 
I I which it describes as ~--~------------ ............ ' The Petitioner's 
position with this company is also confirmed by other media articles in the record, as well as an article 
about the company's anniversary party in a~-------~ magazine,! I 
However, this evidence does not confirm that as a spokesperson, the Petitioner served in a leading or 
critical role. Notably, the evidence does not include details about this role from officials of the 
company, such as the ways in which she acted as spokesperson and any positive impact that she had 
on the company as a spokesperson. 
4 We note that on appeaL the Petitioner submitted a second letter froml ,I dated December 29, 2019 and stating 
that the Petitioner joined the company as its CEO and leading consultant. Even ifwe were to consider this new evidence 
on appeal, it has minimal evidentiaiy weight, as the letter is not signed by I I and does not explain why he continues 
to identify himself as the company's CEO. 
5 
Even fewer details were submitted regarding her role as I t' forl [ with 
the evidence limited to two similar press releases which appeared onl I andl I As these 
appear to be mainly promotional in nature and do not provide details about the Petitioner's duties in 
this role, this evidence does not show that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for this 
establishment. 
After review of all of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner submitted several types of evidence under this criterion, including screenshots showing 
the number of times her movies or videos had been viewed, as well as evidence related to the sale of 
physical DVDs featuring her and receipts for subscription services that allow customers to view her 
movies and videos. In his decision, the Director concluded that since this evidence did not include 
box office receipts and sales receipts, the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. Also, the Director 
noted that the figures calculated by the Petitioner's representative were not supported by evidence in 
the record. 
The record includes pages from several websites, including in some instances the Petitioner's profile 
page on those websites, which shows the number of times that videos featuring her as an actress have 
been viewed. The Petitioner asserts that due to the changing nature of the way movies and videos are 
viewed, and the evidence of the effects of the eovrD 19 pandemic on box office sales as movie 
theatres in the United States closed for most of 2020, the number of views of the movies and videos 
in which the Petitioner appeared should be considered as comparable to the type of evidence called 
for under this criterion. 
We first note that in her appeal brief: the Petitioner refers to guidance from the users Policy Manual 
relating to the 0-1 nonimmigrant visa classification for her interpretation of the comparable evidence 
regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), instead of the section of the users Policy Manual pertaining to 
the immigration benefit sought. In addition, despite claiming that this criterion does not apply to her 
occupation, the Petitioner has submitted evidence pertaining to sales of DVDs featuring her work, as 
well as receipts from a website which operates on a subscription model for the viewing of her work. 
She has therefore not established that this criterion does not apply to her occupation. 
However, assuming arguendo that she has established that this criterion does not apply to her 
occupation, and that the type of evidence she has submitted is in fact comparable to that specifically 
called for under this criterion, the Petitioner has still not established that she has enjoyed commercial 
success as a performing artist. First, regarding the number of times her videos and movies have been 
viewed or streamed across multiple websites, the Petitioner does not provide an exact or even 
approximate figure, stating only that this number is in the "tens of millions." Although the evidence 
does include evidence of those numbers from some of these websites, including the Petitioner's profile 
page onl I showing that her videos have been viewed a total of 5.5 million times, the 
evidence from other websites such as I I show far fewer, and the record lacks evidence of 
6 
the total number of views from other websites she mentions. Vague estimations which are not 
supported by documentary evidence cannot form the basis of a successful claim under this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that a certain quantity of streams or 
views of her videos and movies, whether considered individually or as a whole, can serve as a gauge 
of commercial success. On appeal, she puts forth the following explanation: 
The more streams a film gamers the more popular it is and the more revenue it 
generates. Streaming sites ... generate revenue through ad sales. The more streams or 
views a film gamers, the more the streaming site charges for ads. In the world of the 
internet, the more persons attracted to a website, the more advertisers pay to be placed 
on that website. 
While we do not dispute this general description of the business model used by some websites, it 
describes only an indirect connection between the number of views or streams of an individual's work 
and any commercial success it may enjoy. For that reason, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner 
is insufficient to show that is insufficient that her videos and films which have been streamed and 
viewed on such websites have been commercially successful. 
The Petitioner also submitted some evidence of sales of DVDs featuring her work, some of which is 
as vague as the evidence of the number of streams and views. For example,! ~ s letter states 
only that "we have sold many of DVDs featuring" the Petitioner, despite the evidence in the record 
showing thatl I is a subsidiary of a holding company founded and led by the Petitioner 
and her husband. Another letter froml I CEO ofl I a company which produces and 
distributes! I states that 12 videos featuring the Petitioner are "incredibly popular and are 
high sellers for us." More precise information was submitted in response to the Director's RFE, 
including a letter froml l CEO ot1 I who writes in a March 9, 2020 letter 
that "the last 2 years we sold more than 8500 movies" featuring the Petitioner, priced around 30 euros 
each. However, as noted in the Director's RFE, the number of sales alone are insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's DVDs have been commercially successful, and the Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that this level of sales is considered commercially successful in her industry. 
Finally, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of revenue generated through websites using a 
subscription or similar model for access to her videos and films. The information from the website I !shows links for films featuring her, as well as the number of tickets needed to view 
them and the number of times they have been viewed. She also submitted a list of monthly earnings 
from the website! lwith the Petitioner receiving between $2600 and $4600 per month 
between January 2019 and August 2020. As noted by the Director in his decision, counsel's 
calculations based upon the data from! lare not supported by the evidence. In addition, 
the data froml lis, like the information regarding sales of DVDs featuring the Petitioner, 
insufficient by itself to establish commercial success. She does not offer further arguments regarding 
this evidence on appeal. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20801597 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a qualifying one-time 
achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), and did not claim, in the alternative, that he 
was submitting evidence to satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a I lathlete who competes in the sport internationally. He indicates that he will 
continue to compete as a professional athlete in the United States. In addition, the Petitioner 
states that he intends to contribute to ongoing efforts to introduce to the Olympic Games, and 
to open a school to train future __ __,athletes. 
The Petitioner seeks to establish his eligibility for this classification based on a one-time achievement 
(a major internationally recognized award). The Petitioner's counsel has expressly stated that "he is 
NOT applying under the 3/10 criteria test" by submitting evidence that he satisfies at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, our review is limited to a 
determination of whether the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification 
based on a qualifying one-time achievement. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that his most significant awards in international competition are: 
• First placel lat the 20171 ITour Grand Final tournament 
• First place in the 2018 Tour Grand Slam 
As a preliminary matter, we confirm that the record contains sufficient evidence to corroborate these 
achievements.1 This evidence includes: photographs of the Petitioner's trophies for the 2017 I Grand Final and 2018 Grand Slam (with legible inscriptions); press releases 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director appeared to overlook or mischaracterize certain evidence related to 
his athletic accomplishments. 
2 
published on the "News" section of the website of the Tour 
, , contemporaneous with the events; tournament results and rankings 
published by gScore.eu for the 2017 I ITour, the 2017 I !Grand 
Final and the 2018 Grand Slam); and letters from a senior official of the Federation 
fo ___________ hich confirm these two achievements. 
While there are references to the Petitioner's other awards and his rankings in the sport in the record, 
some of those achievements are not as well documented. For example, there are multiple letters (from 
I I from the President of the and from other athletes) 
that state that the Petitioner was ranked number two in the world at the end of the 2019 season. 
However, the record does not include any further evidence of this world ranking, evidence that the 
ranking itself is an "award," or that is otherwise accompanied by a prize or award. We note that the 
President indicates that the Petitioner has competed in World Tour tournaments and a 
senior I I official states that the Petitioner has consistently competed at thel I World 
Championships. We do not question the reliability of their statements. However, the only results and 
rankings the Petitioner has documented with additional supporting evidence are those he achieved in 
competition on the Tour. 
Accordingly, we will focus on the Petitioner's above-referenced achievements in the 2017 and 2018 I Tour to determine whether he has a qualifying one-time achievement based on his 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award. 
Neither the pertinent statute nor the regulations identify a particular prize or award which qualifies as 
a one-time achievement. We must look to Congress' intent that "admission under this category is to 
be reserved for that small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of 
endeavor." See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 
WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one­
time achievement. Id. Thus, consistent with legislative history, a one-time achievement must be 
interpreted narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally 
recognized awards. We have consistently recognized certain awards (beyond the Nobel Prize) as 
qualifying one-time achievements, such as the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. 
The selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is reported in 
the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to 
the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could 
conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the 
example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized, 
not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. 
The record contains a letter froml I Chief Organizer of the l ______ Tour 
and former !President , who provides the following description of the tour: 
The Tour is the most prestigious tour inl I The Tour 
usually consists of 10 tournaments, spread out acrosse==], plus a Grand Final, the 
location of which varies yearly. Each tournament awards points to the athletes based 
3 
on their performance . The top players from around the world compete in the Tour, 
which ends with the Grand Final, a prestigious championship tournament that awards 
more points to players than the average tournaments. 
In 2017, [the Petitioner] finished the Tour in second place, in 2018, he finished in first 
place, while in 2019, he finished in third place. In the same years, he placed number 
1, 2 and 5 at the Grand Final, respectively. Each year, the Tour fielded over a hundred I professionals who earned at least one point in the Tour .... Each tournament 
hosts dozens of top players. For example, in 2017, [the Petitioner] won the Grand Final 
in Portugal, the most prestigious! I tournament inl I ahead of 25 top I !professionals. 
As noted, the record contains evidence that the website of the I IT our publishes press 
releases with results of itsl tournaments and that such press releases mentioned the 
Petitioner's successes at the 2017 Grand Final, the 2018 Grand Slam and his top two finishes among 
thel Tour in both years. The record, including testimonial evidence from 
nd top I I athletes, establishes that these are acknowledged in the field as the top 
awards forl !athletes. However, the record does not support a determination 
that either of the Petitioner's awards earned on the ITour is a major, internationally 
recognized award that qualifies as a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determination that the record does not 
contain evidence of a one-time achievement "deviates from Service practice," noting that USCIS has 
"consistently" considered a medal at a world championship or continental championship to be a "major 
internationally recognized accomplishment." Counsel's brief includes receipt numbers for several of 
his own previous petition filings in support of his assertion that USCIS service centers have approved 
extraordinary ability petitions for persons who had won national, continental or international 
championships in fields such as chess and poker. 2 However, counsel has not cited to any USCIS 
policy, case law or other binding authority to support his claim that evidence of an award at a 
continental or world championship is generally deemed to be sufficient to qualify as a one-time 
achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's contention that many athletes participate in sports that are not 
included in the Olympic Games. We agree that, in some athletic pursuits, an Olympic medal is not 
the only qualifying major internationally recognized award. However, not all internationally 
recognized awards in athletics receive the type of recognition needed to qualify as "major" awards 
consistent with the one-time achievement contemplated by Congress. In cases where an individual 
cannot obtain a one-time achievement, including instances where it is not available in a field, the 
individual "can also qualify on the basis of a career of acclaimed work in the field" by satisfying three 
of the ten categories of evidence. See H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In those instances, 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for an individual to submit lesser internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field. The regulation does not allow a petitioner to substitute 
2 The evidence submitted with the referenced petitions is not before us for review. Further, we emphasize that we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), a.ffd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
4 
lesser awards as one-time achievements in instances where there is no qualifying major internationally 
recognized award in the field. Further, there is no comparable evidence for the one-time achievement 
of a major, internationally recognized award. 3 
As noted, the record establishes that the Petitioner has won Grand Final and Grand Slam events that 
are considered the highest level of competition among ________ athletes on the 
I ITour. As evidence of the recognition associated with the award, the Petitioner 
documented that the website of thel Tour published press releases reporting the 
results of these tournaments (highlighting the top finishers among men, women, and seniors) and that 
the full results of these events were published by the website gScore.eu. The Petitioner did not provide 
any additional media coverage of these events or provide evidence that either of the sources that 
published the results are major media outlets. He also provided letters from land I I officials 
and world champion! athletes attesting to the fact that his achievements represent the top I I awards in the sport. Finally, we note that the record includes a photograph of the Petitioner 
holding what appears to be a €150.00 cash prize for a second-place finish at the 2018 Portugal Open, 
which served as the Grand Final of the 2018 Tour. 
While we do not question the caliber of competition at the annuall Tour Grand Final 
and Grand Slam events, the record does not include evidence demonstrating that these competitions 
receive broad or significant international recognition outside of the sport itself, such as evidence that 
they receive a level of media attention comparable to that of the Olympic Games or other major 
internationally recognized athletic competitions. On appeal, the Petitioner compares bis achievements 
to top achievements in other sports, noting, for example, that his 2017 European Tour Grand Final 
victory is equivalent to "winning Wimbledon." However, he has not provided evidence that his award 
garnered a similar level of international recognition, nor has he shown, for example, that his awards 
were accompanied by large cash prizes or that the awards he received are familiar to persons outside 
the sport. As discussed above, establishing that an award is acknowledged as a prestigious 
international award in one's field is not sufficient absent evidence that the award gamers major 
international recognition of the type contemplated by Congress. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or that he can satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification based on a one-time achievement. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . As noted, where 
a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we must consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, while the Petitioner asserts that his rankings 
in his sport support a determination that he has reached the top of his field, he did not meet his burden 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix , https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
5 
to establish that he satisfies the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above-stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22046723 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationallyrecognizedaward or meeting three of the evidentiarycriteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner now appeals that decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has successfully competed in martial arts tournaments at 
the national and international level in the past. He submitted letters from two martial arts training 
schools indicating that he is training and competing at local competitions in preparation for 
competition inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, 1 he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
four of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he has 
not met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, and is not eligible as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence of their receipt of awards, that they 
were granted on the basis of excellence in their field of expertise, and that the awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized in that field. Here, the Petitioner lists several awards he claims to have 
received in competitions from2005 to 2016, but provides evidence relating to 
only a few of them. The most recent of these is evidenced by a certificate issued by the I indicating that he received a gold medal in thel I division, 
1 In his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner indicated that hehadreceiveda major, internationally 
recognized award, but did not identify which ofhis awards metthis standardorprovide additional evidence to support this 
claim. He does not repeat this claim on appeal. 
2 
male, and ]weight class atthe 2016 ________ ____,Championship inl 
Thailand. In edition, the Petitioner also submitted evidence concerning his receipt of the following 
awards at sanctioned events: 
• Gold Medal, 2015 Asian Championship,! I Male,I I 
• Silver Medal, 2011 I I World I I Championship, Male I I I 
• Pro-Am Champion, 2011 ...... World Championship 
• First Place, 20111 INational Championship in 
However, there are some discrepancies with this evidence, consisting mainly of certificates with some 
photos of medals, and other evidence in the record. For example, the Petitioner submitted a copy of 
his profile posted on the website ______ which lists him as the "2011 I I 
Champion of Asia." The record does not include evidence that he received this award, nor does he 
claim to have received such an award. While this profile is not an authoritative source of information, 
it presents evidence which conflicts with other evidence in the record. 
In addition, a letter from President of the 
states that the Petitioner was a world champion in Thailand in 2011, 2012 and 2016, and a world champion 
in Indonesia in 2015. But this conflicts with the evidence noted above, which shows that he won a silver 
medal at the 2011 World I !Championship, and that his 2015 gold medal win was at the 
Asianl • IChampionship. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 
(BIA 1988). 
We further note that both the certificate evidencing the Petitioner's win at the 2011 National 
Championship and the letter from I reference a which indicates that there is or 
was a separate nationaj !association and championship recognized by the apart from those 
recognized by other international martial arts associations. As all of the Petitioner's awards were earned 
at sanctioned events, the record does not establish that they are recognized in the overall martial 
arts field at the national and international levels, including by those who are members of and participate 
in competitions sanctioned by other martial arts associations such as thel I 
Also, as noted by the Director in his opinion, the record lacks evidence of national or international 
recognition of these awards beyond the certificates and medals themselves. The Petitioner submitted 
evidence of a single article which appeared in the newspaper Darakchi which was about thel I 
World Cup to be held inl l Uzbekistan in 2011. This article focuses on thisl !sanctioned 
event, and does not show that the Petitioner's awards received atl I events received any similar 
discussion in either major media or in the martial arts field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the awards he received are not local or regional in nature, and that 
the focus of our analysis should be on the recognition of the awards, not the Petitioner. Although we agree 
with these statements, they do not aid in establishing the national or international recognition of the awards 
received by the Petitioner. As noted above, the record lacks sufficient evidence of the recognition of those 
awards, and there are umesolved inconsistencies regarding his receipt of some of them. Therefore, for all 
3 
of the reasons noted above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion requires that a petitioner show that they are a member of an association in their field, 
and that the association requires outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized 
experts. In his decision, the Director acknowled ed the letter from in which he confirms 
that the Petitioner has been representing the __________ team since 2010, but noted 
that it did not establish that the national team requires outstanding achievements of its members. On 
appeal, the Petitioner references this letter and asserts that the team meets this requirement. However, 
I letter provides no insight on the selection process for thel I 
team, nor does any other evidence in the record. While membership on a national team may meet the 
requirements of this criterion, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish that those requirements have 
been met in each case. Because he has not done so, we conclude that he has not met this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The evidence submitted under this criterion consists of a single article published in the newspaper 
Zeravshan on I 2008, titled _ While the Petitioner is 
mentioned and quoted in this article, the Director determined that it was not about him. In addition, 
he noted that the evidence did not demonstrate that Zeravshan is a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media. 
In his appeal, the Petitioner did not address the Director's finding that the article was not about him, 
but asserts that we should focus "on the circulation of the publication, its intended audience if it is a 
professional or trade publication, or the editorial influence of the media source ... " Because the 
Petitioner has not challenged an adverse finding on one of the elements of this criterion, and the record 
includes no evidence of the circulation of Zeravshan or any other information about it, we concur with 
the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to lesser awards, membership, and 
published material about him. Although he also claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, 
relating to contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this 
additional ground. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidence requirementofthree criteria 
4 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve that issue. 2 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 SccINSv. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 10, 2024 In Re: 33376444 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
submit sufficient evidence establishing that he had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification as set forth in the regulations. Namely, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied the requirements ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), which require 
evidence that he participated as a judge of the work of others in field and evidence that he wrote 
scholarly articles that were published in major trade publications , respectively . However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he met the requirements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , which requires evidence that the Petitioner received a lesser nationally or 
internally recognized prize or award, or the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
evidence that that the Petitioner made original scientific or scholarly contributions of major 
significance in his field. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the adverse decision, arguing that the Director did not properly 
assess the submitted evidence. Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 h 3 i , the Petitioner 
refers to previously submitted evidence to su ort his ex lanation that the 
c=]"is the governing body that, by law, The 
Petitioner contends that the Director incorrectly assessed the role of the _________ 
as pertaining to only a sector of Peruvian engineers . 
We agree that previously submitted evidence supports the Petitioner's assertions. Namely, the record 
contains a copy of the award certificate showing that in 2022 the Petitioner was awarded the 
___________ medal by the National Council of the _________ in 
1 The Petitioner claimed that he met a total of the four criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv) -(vi). 
recognition "for his outstanding professional work in the practice ofengineering in the country."2 The 
record also contains other supporting evidence, such as: 1) a photograph of the medal itself; 2) a May 
2022 letter from the "National Dean" representing the National Council of the I ] 
confirming that the Petitioner was the recipient of the referenced national award; and 3) a 
corresponding June 2022 resolution from the National Council of the stating that 
pursuant to "the Statute of the ___________ it is "the responsibility of the 
to establish honorary distinctions to recognize and reward collegiate engineers who have exceptionally 
stood out in their professional practice or to people who have provided significant services to the 
I 3 
In addition, the Petitioner provided certified translations of the evaluation criteria used to determine 
the recipients of the award in question. Some of the factors considered include the prospective 
recipients' academic achievements, professional experience, contributions to engineering, and 
distinctions in engineering "for professional practice in Engineering granted by or "foror 
professional practice in engineering granted by other national or international organizations." 
In light of the evidence submitted, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which related to a lesser nationally or internally recognized 
prize or award. With eligibility under the three criteria discussed above, the Petitioner satisfied part 
one of the two-step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for 
the denial of his petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the 
Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements ofat least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss 
any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. Where a petitioner 
demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115, section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). The Director did not reach a finding on the 
final merits, and we decline to make the final merits determination in the first instance. We will 
therefore remand the matter for the Director to issue a new decision, including a final merits 
determination. 
2 Pursuant to USCIS Policy Manual, submission of certain awards from well-known national institutions or well-known 
professional associations are examples of the types of awards that may satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 Each of the mentioned foreign documents is accompanied by a full English language translation containing a translator's 
certification that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate 
from the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). However, the record also contains two documents that 
appear to contain articles that comprise the referenced statute and are only partially translated into English. One document 
is part of Exhibit E of the initially submitted evidence and purports to translate the document's title and Article 3 .07 of the 
statute; the other document has been submitted on appeal and purports to translate Article 1.05 ofthe same statute. Neither 
document is accompanied by a full English language translation containing a translator's certification as to the translation's 
completeness and accuracy and therefore we cannot meaningfully dete1mine whether these documents are accurate and 
support the Petitioner's claim. If the Petitioner seeks consideration of these two foreign documents, he must comply with 
the listed regulatory requirements. 
2 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 10, 2024 In Re: 33737185 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner' s receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a fashion designer who co-founded (D-), 1 Her work with D-largely involves 
creating and marketing D-'s products using its patented and trademarked software, described on the 
patent as "Software-as-a-service (SaaS) featuring software for use in photo editing," providing 
The record contains material documenting 
the sale of D-'s products on social media platforms, such as media articles discussing the creation of 
D-'s fashionable attire for I I avatars for purchase by I Iend users. According to media 
reports, D-offered "more than 3,000 articles ofdigital clothing[], for people to outfit their own internet 
images or that of their avatars" in 2023. The Petitioner intends to pursue her career in the fashion 
design field through her work with D-. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 
0-1 petition. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by providing 
sufficient evidence (1) that material had been published about her in major trade publications or major 
media, and (2) of her leading or critical role with a distinguished organization. See 
1 The Petitioner indicated in the petition that she intends to be employed within the "Fashion Designers" occupation should 
this petition be approved. DOL's Occupational Information Network (O*NET) summary report for "Fashion Designers," 
may be viewed athttps://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/27-1022.00. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets several 
other criteria, including the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). She asserts that the 
Director erred in determining that she did not meet the plain language of these initial regulatory 
requirements. 
As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality ofthe evidence in the context ofa final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence (1) of a petitioner's work in the field, and (2) 
that their work in the field has been displayed in an artistic exhibition or showcase. The petitioner 
must satisfy both elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that her artistic works were showcased at fashion related 
exhibitions. We note that the Director analyzed the evidence under this criterion and concluded that 
the display ofD-'s fashion designs at the (C-) and 
I (T-) exhibitions did not constitute the display of the Petitioner's own work, 
and as such the Petitioner did not meet the first element of the plain language requirements for this 
criterion. Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the evidence of record suggests otherwise. 
For instance, according to the testimonial letters and the webpages submitted about the exhibition at 
C-, the Petitioner attended the exhibition and assisted in the creation of collaborative digital fashions 
for the personal avatars of other participants at the event. Likewise, for T-' s exhibition the Petitioner 
created and presented a digital dress in the artwork to adorn the avatars of other artists involved with 
this artistic display. 
The testimonial letters and documentary evidence about D-' s business in the record indicates that the 
Petitioner co-founded this company and since its inception has performed in a variety of creative roles 
therein that extend beyond administrative oversight, to include integrating various technologies and 
providing creative direction to create the patented and trademarked software used in the design of the 
digital attire and accessories that form the basis for D-' s online products. We therefore agree with the 
Petitioner that, more likely than not, she meets the plain language requirements for this criterion, and 
the Director erred in concluding otherwise. 
For the reasons discussed above, we withdraw this aspect of the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established her 
qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii), and (viii), on remand, the Director 
should conduct a final merits review of the evidence of record. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. 
3 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for the handful of individuals at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated 
by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 
see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence, evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 10, 2024 In Re: 33167324 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a choreographer, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that she meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which relates to published material about the Petitioner in professional or 
major trade publications or major media. However, because the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), she would not establish that she met three out of ten 
criteria even if we considered her claims regarding the remamrng criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As such, we need not determine whether she meets the requirements of 
that criterion, nor do we need to provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 
24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings 
and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability based on her skills and experience as 
a professional choreographer. As a preliminary matter, we note that the Petitioner listed herself in 
Part I of the petition form, which asks for information about the person or organization filing the 
petition. However, when asked to provide additional information about "the Petitioner" in Part 5, No. 
2 of the petition, the Petitioner listed as the organization filing this petition. 
The Petitioner did not further explain the relationship, if any, between her and the named organization, 
nor did she elaborate on the work she plans to undertake under an approved petition. 1 
Regardless, because the Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence to show that she received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must provide evidence showing that she satisfies at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). As previously noted, the 
1 See Section 203(b)(1 )(ii) of the Act, "the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability." 
2 
Petitioner claims that she meets the elements of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(iii). The 
Director determined that she met only one criterion, the elements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The primary issue to be discussed in this matter is whether the Petitioner 
has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in professional 
associations. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that she is a member in an association 
in her field, that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, and that this 
requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that she satisfies this criterion based on her membership in the Actors' Equity 
Association (AEA). As evidence of her membership in the AEA, the Petitioner submitted a letter on 
AEA letterhead authored by I I who stated that the Petitioner joined the AEA on May 
10, 2023. The Petitioner also submitted a document entitled "AEA Membership Information and 
Procedures," which provided instrnctions for joining the association, listed the application 
instructions, the initiation fee, and member dues, and elaborated on circumstances for loss of 
membership. 
In the denial, the Director noted the AEA's role as a bargaining agent for its members but concluded 
that the record lacks evidence showing that in order to join the organization, prospective members 
must demonstrate that they have outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the relevant field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not correctly apply the law or USCTS policy, 
arguing that the AEA "is a prestigious professional organization" of which she is an active member. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that she gained membership in the AEA "only after she fulfilled the 
stringent requirements," which include attending certain workshops and accumulating a certain 
number of work weeks. The Petitioner also asserts that AEA applicants must "meet certain eligibility 
requirements and follow a specific application processes" prior to becoming members. 
The Petitioner did not, however, submit sufficient evidence to support her claims. As a preliminary 
matter, the Petitioner did not adequately present evidence of her membership in the AEA. Although 
the Petitioner relies on the previously submitted letter from Ms. I las evidence of membership, 
Ms.I I letter does not disclose her position, if any, with the AEA or state how she obtained 
information about the Petitioner's claimed membership. 
Further, despite arguing that the AEA "requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition 
for membership" and does not require "mere employment or activity in the field of acting," the 
Petitioner does not offer evidence to support this assertion. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 T&N Dec. 
369, 376 (AAO 2010). The Petitioner's reliance on the previously submitted "AEA Membership 
Information and Procedures" document is misplaced, as none of the provisions in this document 
indicate that membership is conditional upon the applicant's ability to demonstrate outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized experts in the field. The membership document shows that in 
addition to correctly filling out the application form and meeting required financial obligations, the 
applicant must demonstrate one ofthe following: 1) employment "under an Equity contract"; 2) prior 
membership in good standing in a performing arts sibling union for at least one year and prior work 
as a performer under one of three types of contracts; or 3) joining AEA under the "Open Access" 
program based on prior work as an actor or stage manager at a theater that is within AEA' s 
3 
geographical jurisdiction. As correctly determined by the Director, the submitted evidence does not 
demonstrate that eligibility for AEA membership is conditional upon a showing of outstanding 
achievements by the prospective AEA member. As such, the Petitioner has not established that 
membership in the AEA, even if properly documented, meets the requirements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
which relates to published material about the petitioner and their work in the field of endeavor in a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. However, given the deficiencies 
described above, we need not determine whether the Petitioner meets the requirements ofthese criteria, 
and we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that she met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 11, 2023 In Re: 28311126 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a blogger and social media influencer , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement for this classification, which 
requires documentation of a major, internationally recognized award or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner subsequently filed 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider , followed by a motion to reconsider. In both instances , 
the Director reaffirmed the denial of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ I03.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
The Petitioner has appealed the unfavorable decision on her motion to reconsider , dated March 30, 
2023, in which the Director stated: 
After a thorough review, USCIS finds that the motion satisfies the regulatory requirement 
for filing a motion to reopen and/or reconsider at Title 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) and 
103.5(a)(3). 
Therefore, USCIS grants the motion to reconsider the Form 1-140 of denied case I I 
After additional review of the record of proceeding, including your motion, users has 
determined that you have not established eligibility for the requested benefit. 
users is denying the approval of Form I-140. You will be receiving a decision letter 
under separate cover. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she did not receive a separate decision letter on her motion to 
reconsider and therefore, the Director failed to provide any substantive explanation regarding the basis 
for denial. 
The record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not issue a legally sufficient 
decision with respect to her motion to reconsider. The Petitioner's brief on motion alleged several 
errors in the Director's application of the regulatory criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to the facts 
presented and in the Director's interpretation ofthe plain language ofthose criteria. The decision does 
not address these arguments, and instead summarily concludes those arguments were insufficient to 
overcome the Director's reasons for denying the petition. Although the Director advised the Petitioner 
that she would receive a decision on the merits under separate cover, users records indicate that no 
separate decision was issued. 
An officer's written decision must folly explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 e.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reconsider and did 
not explain the specific reasons for affirming the denial, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to 
consider the Petitioner's substantive arguments on appeal. We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
decision dated March 30, 2023, and remand the matter for farther review and entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 11 , 2024 In Re: 33360024 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an athlete who seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationalit y Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.S(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional pickleball player in the United States on a nonimmigrant visa for 
internationally recognized athletes. 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner initially claimed he met all ten of the 
regulatory criteria but retreated from some of those declarations when responding to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE). The Director decided that the Petitioner only satisfied the prizes or awards 
criterion but not the remaining criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude 
that he has not demonstrated he is eligible for this immigration benefit. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Based on the Petitioner's claims and evidence, the Director determined that he met the requirements 
of this criterion, and we agree. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner's claims and evidence under this requirement related to his televised matches, an 
interview on Y ouTube, and an article on a website. The Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
2 
The Director indicated in the denial that without transcripts they are unable to determine whether the 
Y ouTube interview was about the Petitioner. While the USCIS Policy Manual lists one possible form 
of evidence as transcripts of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and the 
person's work, the Petitioner did not offer transcripts of the claimed interview and within the appeal 
brief states he is "unable to provide documentation of this other than the link." We note a similar 
shortcoming relating to the Petitioner's televised matches on CBS Sports and ESPN+. 
On appeal the Petitioner identifies several new forms of evidence. However, as this material postdates 
the petition filing date it will not factor into our analysis relating to this petition he filed in December 
of 2022. And finally, he discusses an article that appeared on a ranking system's website. But he did 
not provide evidence to reflect this is one of the publication types that the regulation requires (a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media). 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner presents the claims he offered to the Director, that this criterion's 
requirements are applicable to his occupation and are typically generated through tournament 
winnings, royalties, sponsorships, and other compensation. The Director did not directly address 
whether the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion's requirements. 
The plain language of this criterion requires a comparison against "others in the field" and the 
Petitioner must present evidence of objective earnings data showing that he has commanded a "high 
salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing similar work during 
the same time period. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers). 
Although the Petitioner's evidence contains some documentation relating to tournament prize money 
and sponsorships, he does not identify what evidence we should compare to his competitive winnings 
or endorsement agreements, and we were unable to locate evidence in which to compare to his own. 
As this criterion's plain language mandates that type of material, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence that meets the regulation's requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 586 U.S. 392,415 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). 
3 
Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than being potential, 
future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements 
to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements ofthis criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner claims his professional rankings and his pickleball paddle sponsorships qualify him 
under this regulatory requirement. Contributions of major significance connotes that the Petitioner's 
work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Amin, 24 F.4th at 
394 ( citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. Lacking is an explanation ofhow either ofthe Petitioner's 
claims amounts to an original contribution to the field, much less how they have resulted in an effect 
that is of major significance in his field. The Petitioner has not explained how performing well in his 
sport equates to an impact in the field that is of major significance. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements ofthis criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the entity's 
activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it was leading or critical 
for organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments as a whole. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization, establishment, division, or department 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a unit subordinate to these listed entities. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. (citing to the 
definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Before the Director, the Petitioner presented various claims relating to this criterion. A portion of 
those claims focused on the possibility ofpickle ball as a future Olympic sport, and other claims related 
to the Petitioner's success at major tournaments as comparable evidence. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion noting the RFE response was not 
adequately crafted to clearly convey the Petitioner's claims. 
Now on appeal, the Petitioner's brief discusses several organizations or establishments but it never 
gets to the point where it presents a claim relating to any one entity. The brief then transitions to a 
broad set ofclaims ofthe criteria the Petitioner states do not readily apply to his occupation and should 
be considered as comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). As he did before the Director, 
the Petitioner points to a letter from a professional pickleball player to support his contention that this 
criterion is not readily applicable to his occupation. 
4 
The users Policy Manual offers the guidelines we follow for those who wish to claim comparable 
evidence and it provides: 
A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not readily 
apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative. Similarly, general claims that 
users should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 
However, a statement from the petitioner can be sufficient to establish whether a criterion 
is readily applicable if that statement is detailed, specific, and credible. 
Although officers do not consider comparable evidence where a particular criterion is 
readily applicable to the person's occupation, a criterion need not be entirely inapplicable 
to the person's occupation. Rather, the officer considers comparable evidence if the 
petitioner shows that a criterion is not easily applicable to the person's job or profession. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). But under the leading or critical role 
regulation, it is not apparent that its requirements are not readily applicable to his occupation. 
Although the Petitioner claims-and the professional pickleball player's letter implies-that 
pickleball doesn't include any organizations or establishments that could serve to qualify under this 
criterion, he has not sufficiently demonstrated that this criterion's requirements are not readily 
applicable to his occupation. As a result, we will not consider his "success at major tournaments as 
evidence of his performance of a leading role in an organization of distinguished reputation." 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements ofthis criterion, 
nor has he shown we should consider his evidence as comparable evidence. 
Documentation ofthe alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Although the Petitioner submits his professional rankings as comparable to the membership criterion, 
he presented this same eligibility claim as direct evidence under a separate criterion. Consistent with 
the regulatory requirement for evidence that meets three separate criteria, evidence relating to or even 
meeting one criterion is not presumptive comparable evidence to a different criterion. See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122 (upholding our determination not to consider conference presentations of scholarly 
findings-evidence directly related to one criterion- as comparable evidence under the display ofthe 
foreign national's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases regulation). The Petitioner also does not 
sufficiently explain how his rankings compare to this criterion's elements. 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements 
of this criterion, nor has he demonstrated we should consider his claims as comparable evidence. 
Evidence ofcommercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
5 
This criterion requires a petitioner to establish eligibility through volume of sales or box office receipts 
as a measure of his or her commercial success in the performing arts. The USCIS Policy Manual 
states: "The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's 
commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts." See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner advances claims of his general prominent victories in the sport as comparable evidence 
in the place of direct evidence. But even if we were to consider the Petitioner's claims as comparable 
to this criterion's requirements, one element requires him to demonstrate his prominent victories 
through a form of evidence comparable to box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or 
video sales. But the record lacks sufficient evidence in which to compare to the Petitioner's 
unspecified prominent victories. 
The record does not support the Petitioner's claims that he has submitted evidence that should serve 
as comparable evidence for this criterion. 
B. We Reserve any Remaining Issues 
We conclude that although the Petitioner satisfies the prizes or 
awards criterion, he does not meet any 
of the remaining claimed criteria. While he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion 
on appeal relating to the display of his work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), it is unnecessary that we 
make a decision on this additional ground because he cannot numerically meet the required number 
of criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve the remaining issue. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328, 332 (2022) 
(citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not required to make 
"purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); see also see also 
Matter ofM-R-M-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 757, 764 (BIA 2023) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal 
where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although we acknowledge the Petitioner is a professional in his sport who has won multiple 
championships, if he does not present his claims and evidence in a manner that conforms to the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) or as comparable evidence at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4), we cannot conclude that he is a competitor of extraordinary ability. Those regulations 
and the USCIS Policy Manual provide the methods for those believing they have an extraordinary 
ability to prove it. But despite the Petitioner's counsel's knowledge of those authorities that explain 
how they can be utilized, they never followed that lead. "[O]ne can lead a horse to water, but cannot 
always make [them] drink." Toscano v. Chandris, SA., 934 F.2d 383, 387 n.3 (1st Cir. 1991). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown the 
significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and they are one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 32905318 Date: SEP. 12, 2024 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a triathlete, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that she satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a triathlete who has competed on the Venezuelan.. .._________ __, She 
represented Venezuela at the 20141 Iand is currently ranked in the top D 
women's triathletes in the Americas by the World Triathlon Continental Rankings . She has also 
competed in open water swimming competitions. The Petitioner states that she intends to continue 
competing as a triathlete for the United States, including in the ._________ __, and ~ 
Since she does not claim to have a one-time achievement , she 
must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-( x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she met four of these criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials about her in major trade or professional publications or 
other major media; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments 
with a distinguish ed reputation. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record did not demonstrate that she met any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). The Director 
allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to demonstrate that she satisfied 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-( x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence reasserting that she meets the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(i ii) and (viii). 
2 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that she met only one 
of the claimed criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published materials about her in major trade or professional publications or 
other major media. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied this 
criterion. 
The Director concluded that, because the Petitioner did not establish that she met at least three of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), it was not necessary to conduct a final merits determination regarding 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and that her achievements have 
been recognized indicating that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish 
that she satisfied these additional criteria. She asserts that the Director's decision includes several 
errors and "is an arbitrary and capricious interpretation" of the requirements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The 
Petitioner maintains on appeal that she satisfies at least two additional alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, she maintains her prior claim that she meets the three 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (viii), for lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, and performing in a 
leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. For the reasons discussed 
below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least two additional 
categories of evidence. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on two awards: 
• Bronze Medal, 2022 '--------------------------' Women's category. 
• Bronze Medal, 2019 Venezuelan '-------------------~ 
In the RFE, the Director stated, "It appears the award took place while [the Petitioner] participated as 
a non-professional level youth. [The Petitioner] is now attempting to immigrate as a professional 
Triathlete. As such, the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion." The Director does not name 
the award she is referencing in her statement or provide other reasons that the evidence is not sufficient. 
In the decision, the Director stated, "[The Petitioner] did not specifically state they would become a 
professional triathlete, therefore the evidence is siifjicient. As such, the submitted evidence does not 
meet this criterion." Emphasis added. 
3 
When denying an application or petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for 
the denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also, Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994)(finding 
that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's statements in 
both the RFE and in the decision do not sufficiently explain why the Petitioner's evidence does not 
satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, the Director's statement in the decision that 
the evidence is "sufficient" but "does not meet this criterion" is conflicting. Additionally, the Director 
appears to have disregarded the Petitioner's personal statement in the record, stating her intention to 
continue her profession in the field of endeavor, as a competitive triathlete. 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was awarded a bronze medal at the 2022 ~I_____. 
The record also includes evidence to establish that this 
award meets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), including evidence of the 
competition's reputation and contemporaneous media coverage. 1 
Upon de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has submitted sufficient documentation that 
satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, an individual must establish that they are a member of associations in their 
field ofclaimed extraordinary ability. In addition, they must show that these associations require that their 
members have outstanding achievements, and that those achievements were judged to be outstanding by 
recognized national and international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her participation in the 2014~1_____ __,I land the 2014...____________________ __. 
Regarding the 2014~---------~ the Petitioner provided evidence of the results of the 
Youth Women Triathlon event, listing her ranking, having finished in I I for Venezuela. She also 
submitted news articles covering the event, and general information about the 
Regarding the 2014 ~---------------------~ the Petitioner 
submitted evidence of the results of the Junior Women's Triathlon event, listing her ranking, having 
finished in I Ifor Venezuela. She also submitted a news article covering the event, and general 
2information about the 
1 Because we conclude that the Petitioner's bronze medal at the 2022 ._________________ ~ 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i), we need not further consider her additional bronze medal from the 2019 
Venezuelan.__ ______________ ___.and whether this award is for excellence in the Petitioner's 
field of endeavor as a triathlete. 
2 We note that the Petitioner submitted news articles covering other events, identified as the .________ __. and the 
4 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the evidence regarding the~------------~ 
but determined that the Petitioner had not provided evidence demonstrating the requirements for 
membership or that membership is "continuous past a one time event." The Director asked that the 
Petitioner submit additional information, such as a certificate of membership, the associations' 
constitutions or bylaws, and evidence to establish that those responsible for admitting members are 
recognized national or international experts. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner referenced evidence 
already in the record. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence that she meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Director stated, "being a participant and qualifying for events is 
completely different than being asked to join an association and to become a member." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director's conclusion is a misapplication oflaw. She notes that 
the USCIS Policy Manual states, "Election to a national all-star or Olympic team might serve as 
comparable evidence for evidence of memberships in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)." 6 USCJS Policy 
Manual F .2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, 
as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous selection process. It is the 
Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that she meets every element of a given criterion. We will 
not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and requires outstanding achievements of 
its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their fields or disciplines. 
The Petitioner relies on her rankings and information about the events in support of her claim that 
membership on the team requires an outstanding achievement, i.e., a national championship. While 
the news articles refer to competitors in each event as "elite" and "top" athletes, the Petitioner does not 
provide evidence demonstrating how she was selected for either team or who selected her. She does 
not describe the selection process or provide evidence that the process is overseen by national experts. 
The record does not contain corroborating evidence, such as a copy of the official rules or selection 
procedures from the bylaws or constitution ofthe~----------~ although the Director 
specifically requested this type of evidence in the RFE. 
The Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that her participation in the 2014 ._I_ ___. 
are memberships in associations requiring outstanding ~-----------------~ achievements in the field of triathletes, as judged by recognized national or international experts, or that 
participation in either event met any comparable evidence standard. Therefore, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2022." However, the Petitioner does not explain the 
._re-le-v-·a-nc_e_o_f_th-is-, e-v-·id_e_n-ce_t_o-th-is-, c-r-ite-r-io_n __--------~ 
5 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam-Webster's on line dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person.'" Id. 
The Petitioner asserts that her performance in events organized by the. ____________ ____, 
demonstrates that she meets this 
....c_n__t-er_i_o_n___T_h_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r_s_u_b_m-it_s_e_v_i-de_n_c_e-th_a_t_s_h_e-is_ra_nk_e_d.....----, in Venezuela and ~in the 
Americas by the World Triathlon Continental Rankings. She also submits evidence ofmedia coverage 
of her participation in the 20141 !Triathlon event, as well as general information 
~~ I 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's assertion to meet this criterion but determined 
that "no specific evidence was submitted." In response to the RFE. the Petitioner reiterated her assertion 
and submitted copies ofevidence already in the record. The Director noted that the Petitioner's evidence 
of national and international rankings, the media coverage of her 2014 event, and the information about I ldoes not state that she "is critical to the infrastructure 
of [the organizations] in Venezuela." 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that the submitted evidence is sufficient to establish that her role 
is critical tol Iand that the Director's decision is "an 
arbitrary and capricious interpretation ofthe regulatory requirement." 
The evidence in the record does not describe the Petitioner's specific role with either I Ior theI The Petitioner's rankings indicate that she participates in events 
'-o-rg_a_n_i-ze_d_b_y'l,------,1-b_u_t_sh_e_____.has not described her role beyond that ofparticipant or competitor. The 
record demonstrates that the Petitioner participated in the 2014.....________ _, but similarly, she 
has not described her specific role or duties other than as a competitor. The record does not contain 
corroborating supporting evidence to identify her role as leading or critical for either organization, as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner has not claimed or submitted evidence to establish 
that she serves in a leading or critical role, either for the organization as a whole or as a member of the 
triathlon team in any event. 
Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's determination that the record does not contain detailed 
and probative information that specifically addresses how the Petitioner's performance in her role is 
leading or critical. The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is a talented triathlete whose skills are 
6 
critical to her event performances. However, the Petitioner has not established how her individual 
performances serve as a critical role for the organizations managing the events. Nor has she established 
how her performances are of significant importance to the outcome of the activities ofl lor the 
.____________ ____, Because the Petitioner has not established that she played a leading or 
critical role for an organization, we need not further consider whether the claimed organizations have 
a distinguished reputation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, the Director erred in the analysis of the evidence in the record relating to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), and we conclude that the Petitioner has established that she meets this criterion with her 
receipt of a nationally recognized prize for excellence as a triathlete. However, we need not remand the 
matter for further consideration because the Petitioner has not overcome the basis for denial regarding the 
other claimed criteria. As such, she has only met two criteria. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that she satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
B. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible for the 
benefit sought because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that she meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits 
determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level 
of expertise required for the classification sought. 3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her accomplishments as a triathlete is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
3 This review included consideration of additional evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatmy 
criterion, such as event results and media coverage of additional triathlon and swimming competitions. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated 
reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 12, 2024 In Re: 33440983 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business development executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner serves as Vice President for Business Development at a a supplier of 
telecom engineering services and products. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
four of these criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only the judging criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional 
categories of evidence. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted documentation relating to his product 
development work for I I and a guest lecture he provided for a 
Extension virtual Zoom course, entitled _____________ ___ 3 The record 
also includes evidence of contracts and licensing of products and services from 4 In addition, 
the Petitioner presented information about a book he coauthored, entitled 
___________ as well as letters of support from colleagues in the field discussing 
his projects at multiple companies. The Director considered this documentation but found that it was 
not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings under this criterion relating 
to his extension course guest lecture and book. He therefore has not overcome the Director's 
1 The Petitioner received a Master of Business Administration degree from (2012) and 
a Certificate from the Product Management Program at __________ (2016). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 The Petitioner completed the __________ Executive Education Product Management Program in 
2016. He did not explain how providing a guest lecture at a university he previously attended is indicative of a business­
related contribution of major significance in the field. 
4 This documentation includes !proposals and contracts with for radio frequency engineering and design, 
proposals and contracts with for fiber construction, proposals and contracts with _____ and licenses 
sold to While the Petitioner helped determine clients' needs and effectively 
communicated their needs to I Iengineering team, he has not demonstrated that he originated the technologies 
used in products such asl I 
2 
determination that they do not meet requirements of this criterion. 5 We consider the Petitioner's prior 
eligibility claims not raised or contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is 
waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 
25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director incorrectly concluded the testimonial evidence of 
his achievements in the field was insufficient. He asserts that the testimony of independent witnesses 
as well as corporate executives with direct knowledge of his original contributions was not properly 
considered as part of the record. The Petitioner's references discussed his product development 
projects at I I and financial work at other companies, but their statements do not demonstrate 
the originality of his work and its major significance in the field. As discussed below, the reference 
letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner 
has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
Regarding the Petitioner's involvement in the development of the I !network test measurement 
tool for __________ the company's CEO and Co-Founder, stated: 
In the year 2013 we first started working on our automated drive test tool called _ 
was envisioned with two important benefits to the customer -to make 
data collection cheaper and error free. 
[The Petitioner's] personal commitment to deliver this solution was commendable. Right 
from understanding the customer's problem to helping with the development of the 
solution he supported the Product team to an unimaginable length. Since he was also a 
part of the Business Development team, he was able to make this dream a possibility by 
getting its first-ever contracts from one of the big telecom operators 
the U.S. (which is I I to the tune of over 4 million dollars, which grew I Ito 
different level. This activity not only helped the company grow in revenue, but we had 
to open a back-office operation to manage the projects that were awarded to us. 
[The Petitioner] also came up with the idea of using Salesforce as a tool to manage the 
projects and used his analytical ability to visualize and guide the company various key 
performance indicators that we would need to monitor to make this program a success. 
While I I indicated that the Petitioner's work "supported the Product team" and helped his 
company secure a contract with I I the Petitioner has not shown that his work for I I has 
been considered important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the 
telecommunications, business development, or project management fields. 
5 For example, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his book and guest lecture have influenced the field in a major way, 
have been highly cited relative to others' work in the field, or have otherwise affected his field at level commensurate with 
original business-related contributions of major significance. 
3 
With respect to the Petitioner's involvement with the development of 
President and CEO of I I stated: 
[The Petitioner] has a mindset to help clients build new products. He listens 
meticulously to his clients and helps his IT teams understand in a language they can 
understand. This has helped him to work with people from various engineering and 
development backgrounds and help build products that have filled a 
lot of gaps that were in the telecom industry. Their latest product I I... is 
a phenomenal idea of creating an AI based CRM tool for the telecom industry and help 
project managers get away from working and maintaining Excel sheets and instead get 
meaningful insights to their I I but generating intelligent reports. This idea was 
floated by [the Petitioner] when _____ was awarded the biggest project on 
PIM modulation by one of their clients 3 years ago. Instead of managing the data on 
Excel sheets [the Petitioner] immediately understood the roadblocks in the system and 
started working with his development team to develop a cloud-based application to 
manage the whole program. 
Mr. further noted that and used it in their national 
radio access network teams to manage their databases, but the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
this tool has affected the field in a substantial way (beyond his company's clientele such as I I or 
that his contribution to the product otherwise constitutes an original contribution of major significance 
in the telecommunications field. 
In addition, I Icurrently Vice President of Business Development atl I and 
formerly coworker of Petitioner atl I asserted that the Petitioner's "ability to analyze customer 
needs and data driven decision making approach always helped him and the team to come up with the 
most innovative solutions for our customers." Likewise, I I formerly Vice President of 
Data Analytics atl Istated that based on the Petitioner's regular interaction with various clients, 
I I was able to understand that the biggest problem of the industry at one given moment was 
the need for an automated drive test tool which helps telecom operators to collect network data while 
driving between cell tower and other telecom sites." Mr.I I also indicated that the Petitioner's 
"ability to analyze the problem and bring his unique solution to the engineering team to be brought to 
life was a great start to the development of our new product." While the Petitioner helped determine 
clients' needs and effectively communicated their needs to I Iengineering team, he has not 
demonstrated that he originated the underlying technologies used in products such asl I 
I land that his work rises to the level of business-related contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
Furthermore, Dr.I I professor at ___________ (the Petitioner's alma 
mater), stated that the Petitioner "put his finance and MBA skills to effective use by working with 
I I technical professionals and major customers to identify financially valuable new products 
and services, leading to the introduction of successful telecommunications implementations." Dr. 
I I however, does not offer specific examples of how the Petitioner's original work for I I 
has influenced the telecommunications industry to the extent that it is of major significance in the 
field. 
4 
The record also includes letters of support discussing the Petitioner projects at other employers before 
he joined I I For example, _____ Chief Business Officer -Auto Loans, 
I I stated that he worked with the Petitioner at both 
Regarding the Petitioner's work for _____ 
indicated that the Petitioner "launched multiple new branches for his region" and "helped the region 
reach record breaking numbers." With respect to the Petitioner's projects at Mr. 
asserted that the Petitioner headed "the consumer durables lending program in North India," 
"came up with the idea of Advance Dealer Disbursement that led to record breaking revenue for the 
whole company across India," and "won the award for the most Innovative regional manager in the 
entire company." The Petitioner, however, has not shown that his work for D rises to the level of original business-related contributions of major significance in the field 
Additionally, Senior Vice President, indicated that the 
Petitioner worked under his supervision as Regional Sales Manager for North India. Mr.I I 
stated: 
[The Petitioner] built a strong and motivated sales team and a wide dealer distribution 
of 250+ dealers in North India and ensured that all major retailers worked with 
I I [The Petitioner] drove his team to adapt to the latest technology of cloud 
computing and leverage the new products and processes to create a W o W customer 
experience. Under his leadership, sales turnover doubled every year and we again 
started branch expansion in northern markets from 9 cities to 15 cities. 
While the Petitioner improved sales and helped I Iexpand its branch operations to new 
cities, Mr.I I does not explain how the Petitioner's work for the company in North India is 
indicative of original business-related contributions of major significance in his field. Nor has the 
Petitioner demonstrated that the level of attention received by his work signifies that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his specific work to improve his employers' sales, 
services, and new product offerings rises to the level oforiginal business-related contributions ofmajor 
significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our decisions concluding that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, clients, or customers." 
Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) (upholding an agency 
decision that held "[aa] patent is not necessarily evidence ofa track record of success with some degree 
of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,394 (5th Cir. 2022) 
(upholding agency decision that held evidence insufficient "because it did not show widespread 
replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his original work 
has affected his field at a level commensurate with contributions of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
5 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented a book he coauthored, entitled I _____ 
The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "scholarly articles" and the Petitioner's book does not equate to an article. 
An article is "a nonfictional prose composition usually forming an independent part of a publication 
(as a magazine)."6 On the other hand, a book is "a long written or printed literary composition."7 
Furthermore, the regulation requires that the articles be "in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media." As books may be published independently or self-published, mere publication 
does not establish that a book is a professional or major trade publication or other type of major media. 
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or 
philosophical discourse. 8 It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with 
a college, university, or research institution. 9 Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by 
other experts in the field of specialization. 10 While I I contains endnotes and a 
bibliography, the Petitioner has not shown that his book qualifies as a scholarly article within the 
purview of academia. 11 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 12 "Learned" is 
defined as having "profound knowledge gained by study." 13 Learned persons include all persons 
having profound knowledge of a field. 14 Here, the Petitioner did not show that his book was written 
for learned persons in the field. For example, recommendations appearing in the initial part of the 
book state that I l"would be useful to someone new to product management," "is an 
essential read for anyone looking to bring a new disruptive product to market," is "an essential 
reference for anyone who aspires to be a rock star product manager," "is a must-read for everyone 
who cares about building the right products in the right way," and "covers many ideas and frameworks, 
along with providing step-by-step instructions for aspiring innovators and product developers." In 
addition, the record includes a quote from the Petitioner indicating that his book covers "the do' s and 
don'ts of successful product development for people wanting to be the next generation of product 
managers." These statements do not necessarily indicate that the book was written for learned persons 
in the field. 
Even if the Petitioner had demonstrated that I !equates to a scholarly article, which it 
does not, he has not shown that his book is a professional or major trade publication or other form of 
major media. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
6 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/article, accessed on September 9, 2024. 
7 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/book, accessed on September 9, 2024. 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
9 Id. 
10 Id. 
11 The book's inclusion as "recommended reading" for a virtual "extension" course at a university where the Petitioner 
pursued studies I and its coverage in a blog post on the website of the Petitioner's alma 
mater I do not necessarily render it scholarly. 
12 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
13 Id. (citing to the Oxford English Dictiona1y 's definition of "learned"). 
14 Id. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner meets the judging criterion but has not established he satisfies the criteria relating to 
contributions of major significance and authorship of scholarly articles. Although the Petitioner also 
claims eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need 
not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the 
initial criteria is dispositive of his appeal, we also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We therefore reserve these issues. 15 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18039910 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher and professor in the medical science field, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was em lo ed as an associate rofessor in the 
department of biological sciences at .__ _____________________ __. m 
South Korea. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging the 
work of others in his field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer reviewed 
manuscripts for professional journals such as Cell Chemical Biology and that he has served as a thesis 
and dissertation committee member at I I In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly 
articles in professional publications, including Cell and Science. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria related to published materials and 
original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v) and that he is otherwise eligible for the 
classification sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. Most of the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion relates to the Petitioner's investigations of the molecular 
mechanisms oti I in cells. 0 0 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner while workin as a researcher at 
an article titled Universit ublished 
" in Cell. The Petitioner explains that he "discovered how.__ _____ ~· .. are '-----------,,L-----, activated durin activation, which is an essential discovery to treat and better understand a 
large number o '-----~ diseases." He provided evidence that his article, for which he is credited 
as the first author, has been very highly cited by other researchers. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not give sufficient weight to detailed 
letters from experts that provided context regarding the importance of his research contributionsc=] I I o~ IUniversit ex lains that the findings the Petitioner published in Cell 
answered a long-standing question in th concerning the interaction of two 
different membrane proteins...,_ ______ ----,Jduring.__ _ __.activation. He emphasizes that "the 
answer to this question is very important and critical for many scientists . . . to understand the 
fundamental mechanism by which the I I can be activated, and to develop better and safer 
.__ _______ ~for patients." In addition, he further describes how the Petitioner's study has 
impacted research in the field . 
.,__ ______ ....,~f the University ofl I also discusses the Petitioner's research in the 
.__ _____ __.I field, crediting him with making several important discoveries that "advanced the 
boundaries" of the field and "propelled the field forward." In part, he notes that the Petitioner's 2009 
Cell article "has formed a focus for work by many groups in the past ten years to delineate thel I 
I J interaction, how it leads to I I and now naturally occurring mutations in I lcause human disease." I I further explains how the Petitioner's research has 
contributed to "uncovering fundamental mechanisms of howl I can be differentially 
regulated in different cells types," and "paving the way for development of drugs forl I I I diseases." 
The record reflects that, in addition to the very high rates of citation for his Cell article, the Petitioner 
has received international patents for technologies that build upon this foundational discovery. In 
addition, the Petitioner provided evidence of the article's influence by documenting ways in which 
other researchers have significantly relied on and built upon his research. 
When considered in its totality, the Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence to establish the nature 
and significance of his scientific contributions and has demonstrated that he satisfies the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
3 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Petitioner received his doctor of philosophy in biochemistry fr~o_m....!l======r----------' 
University in 2003. Between 2004 and 2011, he was employed byl I University as a 
postdoctoral associate, research associate, and visiting professor in the Dlpartmrt of Neurobiology. 
He has since been employed in the Department of Biological Sciences at where he currently 
serves as an associate professor and principal researcher for investigations in thel I 
field funded by the National Research Foundation of Korea, the Ministry of Science, and the Korean 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology. 
As discussed above, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the 
medical sciences field through his discoveries related to the mechanisms involved inl I I I and demonstrated that many other researchers have used this research as a foundation for 
their own important breakthroughs. The record contains evidence of the Petitioner's continued 
contributions and demonstrates that his discoveries have earned him sustained acclaim in this field. 
For example,! I Director and Head of Neuroscience Platforms atl 
!highlights the importance of the Petitioner's more recent paper, 
published in Chemistry and Biology. He explains that the Petitioner identified a compound called I I that modulates the function ofl las anl I and 
describes its importance as a potential drug candidate. The record shows that the Petitioner has 
received patents for this compound and that several pharmaceutical companies and laboratories are 
now synthesizing and selline I I for research applications worldwide. I I also 
discusses the significance of this research, emphasizing that the ~-----__. method the 
Petitioner used in his study to discover! l"broke new ground in the search for 
therapeutic ... modulators'~------------' proteins and offers important advantages over 
traditional drug discovery methods based on cell-based assays. 
In addition, lains that the Petitioner's lab a~ l"made the initial discovery of a 
............ ---------.--------,----' .. that is the first and only example of al I that 
inhibits store operate'-'L-__ ____.' rather thanl I them. He discusses the lsignifi:rce of this 
discovery and details how it has "has sparked new ideas about how alternative may shape 
~-----~that guide development of skeletal muscle and fat tissue." The expert opinions 
regarding the significance of these more recent discoveries are supported by evidence that the 
Petitioner's ongoing work at his I I laboratory continues to be influential in opening additional 
avenues for research and in efforts to develop a new class of~------~ therapies based on 
targeting thel I 
The record further reflects that Korean news agenc Newsis re orted on the Petitioner's discovery of 
th d its otential as a thera eutic in an article titled 
Another study published by the Petitioner in Science was the subject of a Korean media 
4 
article titled L-----------r----,_ ____________ _J The Petitioner is quoted 
in both articles as the head of the laboratory that published the findings, thus garnering him 
additional recognition for his work. 
Regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored a 
considerable number of articles that were published in distinguished professional journals. As 
authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the citation history or other 
evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is an important indicator of the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. In this 
case, the Petitioner has offered a report reflecting thousands of citations to his published work, as well 
as evidence demonstrating that the rate at which his articles have been cited is very high for his field, 
and that several of his articles have been particularly influential. The record also reflects that he 
continues to publish scholarly articles in his field and to accumulate citations to his work at a sustained 
rate. Overall, the number of research articles he has coauthored, and their unusually high rate of 
citation are commensurate with being among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has obtained media coverage, patents, continuous research 
funding and significant attention from other experts in his field that is reflected in the citations to his 
work, as well as frequent invitations to present his work at national and international conferences in 
the United States, South Korea, and throughout Asia. In addition, he has received and completed 
independent requests to review a substantial number of manuscripts for renowned professional 
publications. These are all positive indications of the sustained acclaim he has received for his 
contributions. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a finding that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, he has established 
that he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18356046 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has competed in the karate discipline, 
including ine=]and the United States. 1 He indicates his intention to continue competing as a karate 
athlete in the United States. His most recent entry was in 2018 as a F-1 nonimmigrant student, and he is 
pursuing a doctorate at the University ofl I where he plans to continue his karate training. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
following evidentiary criteria: membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).2 After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three 
criteria, as required. 
1 The record indicates that the! !Karate FederationLJ) is the national governing body of the spolt inD the USA 
National Karate-do Federation (USANKF) is the national governing body of the spolt in the United States, and the World 
Karate Federation is the international governing body. 
2 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to published material in certain media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's finding that he does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, we consider this issue to 
be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. The record reflects that 
the Petitioner has received numerous awards in the field of karate. For example, it establishes that in 
the I I category he received first place at the 20191 I Texas State 
Karate Championship and National Qualifier l 12019), in the I I Male Advanced I I 
Ocatego he received second place at the 20191 ~ National Karate Championships and 
Team Trials 2019), and in Mal el I Division he received second place at the 2019 
.__ __ ~ __ __._,Karate Championship ~ 12019). It further shows that the International 
Karatedo~--~Association awarded him first lace in the Junior Male I lcategory and 
second place in the Junior Male .__ _______ _,weight category, respectively, at thel I I !World Championships '----r---~ 2009). 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provides copies of awards certificates, photographs of medals, screenshots 
from the websites of the event organizers, and a translated article from I I magazine 
confirming his results in competitions. 3 For example, the article from I , I reports that 
the I [(Karate) Team in the.___ _____ ___. Championship held in[ I 
managed to be the champion of this round of games winning 17 gold medals." The article lists the 
Petitioner among the names of 14 medalists on the team, and notes that he and two others won a gold 
medal in the Youth! I division at the competition. This limited evidence of the award's media 
coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition associated with 
the awards he received at the ~--------~ World Championships. While the above 
materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of these awards, they do not 
demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 4 The record lacks other 
evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field of martial arts, as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not submitted documentation 
sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains his eligibilit)'. for this criterion through his position as a former member of 
the~------~Team ofthel 1.5 In order to satisfy 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the
1field.) I 
5 The evidence reflects that the is a member of fhe Tntematjona) ~aratedo I I Association based in I I 
Japan, which represents the style of karate practiced by_ _ I and holds world championship 
competitions every four years. 
3 
this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged 
by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for 
which classification is sought. In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence sufficient to establish that the I I requires outstanding achievements of its 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence related to his membership, asserting that 
the documentation demonstrates his eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner refers to several of 
our non-precedent decisions concerning athletes who petitioned under this classification. These 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the decisions although we will not discuss each one separately. The Petitioner emphasizes that the 
referenced non-precedent decisions demonstrate that we have previously "held that selection to and 
participation on a national team satisfies the membership requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)." 
Similarly, he urges that Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp. 2d 535 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), which involved 
a member of thd I Table Tennis Team who competed at the 2008 Olympic Games, supports his 
contention that "letters descriptive of a highly selective process to achieve membership on an I I 
national team are an acceptable form of evidence to satisfy the membership criterion." 
We acknowledge that membership on a national team may, depending on the evidence presented in 
an individual case, be sufficient to satisfy this criterion. While an athletic team is not, strictly speaking, 
an "association," it is nonetheless equally true that an athlete can earn a place on a major national or 
an Olympic team only through rigorous competition which separates the very best from the great 
majority of participants in a given sport. Therefore, an athlete's membership on an Olympic team or 
a major national team may serve to meet this criterion as such teams are limited in the number of 
members and have a rigorous selection process. 6 It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate 
that he meets every element of a given criterion. We will not assume that every "national team" is 
sufficiently exclusive and requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their fields or disciplines. Upon review of the letters submitted, we 
conclude that they do not establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion, as they contain 
inconsistent and insufficient information regarding the I I Team membership 
requirements and selection processes. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters from'-----.=========-==;--' president of th~ J
1 who states that the Petitioner was a member of the Team "at thd.....,.....,=-~~,......,.J llw orld Championship (2009 and 2013 I ~ where he ~ Gold r I and Silver medal " In an additional letter 
dated June 202o] 0 ldescribes the selection process for the~-------~ Team as 
follows: 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual. supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that election to a national all-star or Olympic team might 
serve as comparable evidence for evidence of membership in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
National team selectees are initially required to rank first or second at the provincial 
championships, which qualifies them for the c=Jnational championships. At the 
nationals (every year around mid-September), national team [selectees] ... were again 
required to finish first or second to establish eligibility for the national team selection 
competition, the premier national competition forl I 
The national team selection competition is presided by thel l Board of Directors 
and President who constitute the Selection Committee for the national team. 
This committee is comprised of the top karate officials and experts in including 
myself .... 
In assessing the final Ranking of these competitors, the selection committee evaluates 
national team prospects based upon their technical performance (stances, transitional 
movements, timing/synchronization, focus, conformance) and athletic performance 
( strength, speed, balance). Upon completion of the national team selection 
competition, the athletes with the top-2 scores overall are selected to representD on 
the world stage at competitions, which include thel !World Championships . 
.__ ___ __.~ndicates the forgoing description constitutes thel I "formal national-team selection 
process despite the unavailability of formal records and/or by-laws confirming the same." 
The Petitioner provided a farther letter froml I and letters from other I I board members 
I l,...__ _______ _,, and~I ----~I all dated June 2020, which describe 
"the national-team selection process" as follows: 
Competitions for our athletes begin at the provincial level where gold and silver medal 
winners become eligible for our national championships . . . Judges at the national 
competition evaluate competitors based upon the technical and athlete rules/by-laws of 
thel I Therefore, [the Petitioner] ... was 
mandated by our national federation to follow this highly selective evaluation rubric 
and was deemed eligible to represent thel lby the top experts of 
our sport . 
. . . [t]he information herein is a true and accurate statement of thel I national team 
selection process despite no official recordkeeping or by-laws documenting same. 
In comparing the letters froml 11 11 l and one of the letters fromD 
~-~~hey contain large portions of identical or virtually identical language consistent with a common 
source. If testimonial material lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
Petitioner to famish corroborative items. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In addition, 
the letters submitted contain inconsistences related to the membership criteria and selection process 
for thd ITeam. For example, one o~ l's letters describes the selection 
criteria as involving a three-tier process in which a candidate must achieve first or second place 
finishes in provincial-level competitions and the national competition, as well as a top-two final 
ranking in athletic and technical performance at the national team selection competition judged by the 
5 
Selection Committee jr thel 11 However, another ofl Is letters and those of□ I I, I _ and I I provide alternate criteria for national-team membership, 
describing a two-step selection process in which gold and silver medal winners at the provincial level 
become eligible for the national championship in which judges "evaluate competitors based upon the 
technical and athlete rules/by-laws ofthel I' The Petitioner 
must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where 
the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Further, none of the above letters identify the Petitioner's competitive results in the provincial, 
national, or national team selection competition which resulted in the Petitioner's inclusion on the 
national team in 2009 and 2013, or evidence establishing that his placings at those events qualify as 
"outstanding achievements" as required by the plain language of this criterion. Moreover, since the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence of when he became a member of the national team, we have no 
basis to evaluate whether he met the membership requirements stated in the above letters. 
We note that the Director's determination that the letters submitted "do not in any way describe the 
selection process for membership" on the claimed national team was incorrect, given the contents of the 
letters from] 11 = ll l andl I, quoted above, and their position 
within thel I. However, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letters in support of 
this criterion; the authors of the letters do not indicate where the organization's official membership 
requirements and review processes can be found, and there is no supporting independent 
documentation that describes these requirements. As he has not submitted verifiable and consistent 
evidence with respect to the.__ _______ __. Team membership requirements or selection 
processes, the Petitioner has not established that this claimed national team requires outstanding 
achievement of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For the above 
reasons, the Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. Here the Petitioner 
asserts eligibility through his participation as "a Judge and Referee" at the 2019 I l 
Karate Championship, the 20191 INational Karate Championships and Team Trials, and 
the 20191 I Texas State Karate Championship and National Qualifier. 
The Petitioner provided several letters in support of this criterion. A letter dated August 2019 from I I of the USANKF states that the Petitioner "has been officiating at thel I 
National Championships as well as regional tournaments in 2019" and that he is "a great addition to 
thd I referee corps." A letter from.__ _____ ~~ President of the I I 
.__ ______ confirms that the Petitioner "participated as an athlete and as a Referee at 2019 
Texas State Championship & National Qualifier held in May 2019." The Petitioner also provided a 
7 We note that the record lacks evidence establishing that the Selection Committee for thee=] national team is comprised 
of nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field, as required by this criterion. 
6 
letter of appreciation dated October 2019 from I I tournament director for the 2019 I I Karate Championship, thanking him for "an exemplary job officiating during most 
of the day." 
Further, the record contains several certificates from USANKF relating to the Petitioner's officiating 
qualifications. A certificate dated March 2019 identifies the Petitioner as a "Regional Kumite Judge­
B" and states that he has satisfied "the requirements for a license within the [USANKF]." A certificate 
dated May 2019 indicates he is a "Kumite Regional Judge A" and confirms he has fulfilled the 
"national requirements of th~I IReferee Committee," apparently during the aforementioned 
20191 I Texas State Karate Championship and National Qualifier. 
Further, two certificates dated July 2019 identify the Petitioner as a "Regional Kata Judge C" and a 
"National Kumite Referee D," respectively, and confirm his fulfillment of the "National Requirements 
of the [USANKF] Referee Committee," apparently during the aforementioned 20191 I 
National Karate Championships and Team Trials. Moreover, several photographs appear to show the 
Petitioner officiating at 20191 IN ational Karate Championships and Team Trials and posing 
with other officials at the 201 g I Karate Championship. 
The USANKF certificates establish the Petitioner's qualifications as a judge and referee. The 
statements otl b11dl I confirm that the Petitioner has been officiating at the D 
I I National Championships as well as regional tournaments in 2019. I ~ndicates 
that the Petitioner participated as a referee at 2019 Texas State Championship & National Qualifier. 
However, the Petitioner does not provide a description of his duties at any of the above competitions 
to demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed 
to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Further, the record lacks 
other evidence, such as the Petitioner's credentials for the events at which he officiated to identify his 
role and official competition rules for the events, showing that the role in which he served equates to 
participating as a "judge" of the work of others. Without farther documentation, such as evidence that 
he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner at these events, the 
evidence regarding serving as an "official" or a "referee" at martial arts events is insufficient to meet 
this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the three criteria relating to prizes or 
awards, membership, and judging. Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy an additional 
criterion related to leading or critical role on appeal, we need not reach this issue. We reserve it as he 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
7 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22099821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de 
nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, participation as a judge of others' work at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets six additional 
evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he won Telenedelya magazine's 
prize (2014) based on having received the most votes in the 
category.3 He also provided the rules associated with this magazine's 
prize, which state that individuals "can take part in the voting using SMS-messages or the site tv.ua/tz," 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
3 The Petitioner's evidence reflects that the I I prize was awarded to individuals in 12 different categories. 
2 
that "[aa ]ny Ukrainian TV viewer can take part in the voting," and that winners are selected based on 
votes received from "the largest number of viewers." 
In addition, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he was recognized as I ______ 
in 2019 by Cosmopolitan magazine's Ukrainian edition. The rules for this award indicate: "You can 
vote one vote from each social media account or from one mailbox. You can vote for just one nominee 
in each of the nine categories. Voting for the nominees will last from March 1, 2019 to May 21, 2019 
inclusively on the website cosmo.com.ua. Only ... citizens of Ukraine residing in the territory of 
Ukraine have the right to take part in the voting." 
The Petitioner further provided promotional information about his awards from the aforementioned 
magazines' websites and some media coverage relatinJ to the announcement of the winners, but this 
documentation does not indicate the significance of his I prize and award 
in the field of endeavor. 4 The record does not include evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's 
awards were recognized by the field in general rather than mainly limited to the readership of 
Telenedelya or the Ukrainian edition of Cosmopolitan. Nor does the evidence show that the limited 
media coverage relating to the Petitioner's two awards rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. Without further evidence regarding their national or international significance in his field, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also claimed five awards won by the reality television show I I as 
evidence for this criterion. 5 To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he was the 
recipient of prizes or awards. 6 The documentation announcing the winners of the I I and 
I I awards, however, does not identify the Petitioner as their recipient. See Hristov v. Roark, 
2011 WL 4711885 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) (finding that a producer and star actor was not the recipient of 
awards for Best Short Film and Best Cinematography since he was not named on either award). 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted articles about him in Cosmopolitan (Ukrainian edition), National Geographic 
(Russian edition), Otdokhni!, Hello! (Russian edition), GQ (Russian edition), Mediananny.com, 
4 Cf, Strategati, LLC v Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award 
eliminated men from consideration and thus did not "measure th i i n r' n ing or selection from the whole field.") 
5 The record indicates that the Petitioner w was a co-host of the television show. This show received 
Russian Academy of TelevisionL__J awards in 2014, 2016 and 2018 for and 
National Council ofT elevision and Radio Broadcasting ofUkrainel I awards in 2015 and 2016 for ___ 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that the description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.) 
3 
Telenedelya, www.gazeta.ru, https :// I istochnik. ru, www footboom. ru, www.stb.ua, and 
ua.tribuna.com, but the authors of the articles in Cosmopolitan, National Geographic, Otdokhni!, 
Mediananny.com, Telenedelya, wwwfootboom.ru, and www.stb.ua were not identified as required by 
this criterion. In addition, the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) 
included screenshots from similarweb.com regarding website traffic for the aforementioned 
publications' websites. For example, the similarweb.com "Traffic Overview" for Cosmopolitan 
(Ukrainian edition) listed 'Total Visits" at "660.25K," a "Global Rank" of "106,481," a "Country 
Rank" of "2,126," and a "Category Rank" of "339." The Petitioner, however, did not establish the 
significance of these statistics, showing that the aforementioned magazines and websites represent 
major trade publications or other major media. 7 
Also in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided two additional articles about him in 
L'Officiel I 12021) and Privat Space 2020), but both articles were published after 
he filed the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
Given the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner argues that he "has created and produced a substantial number of TV 
shows, which were broadcasted on the major Russian TV channel I I and have garnered a large 
number of reviews, comments by Petitioner's colleagues -TV presenters, as can be seen from their 
written letters-testimonies."9 As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed 
information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the 
nature of specific "original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been 
considered to be of major significance. 
For example, in his two letters dated 2020 and 2021, I general 
manager at __________ in indicated that the Petitioner has worked for the I I channel "as TV host/presenter of our most popular! lshow ... si smce 
2013 .... I I became the pivotal part of our programming ... Our channel has won 
numerous awards for I I with [the Petitioner] as host of the show and a creative 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
9 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
visionary behind its lasting success."10 While these awards recognized the popularity and creativity 
of the shshow, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's original work 
has influenced the entertainment industry to the extent that it is of major significance in the field. ..c==J further stated that the Petitioner "created and produced his own TV shows such as I I 
(2014), I (2016-2019), and I I Additionally, I I 
claimed that these shows "became very popular among viewers in Russia and CIS" (Commonwealth 
oflndependent States), but the record does not include sufficient information or supporting evidence 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's part in these projects has affected his industry in a substantial way 
or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, I I director of production studio in 11 
asserted that "thanks to [the Petitioner's] skills, talent, and expertise, show 
consistently received very high ratings and was thus able to achieve tremendous success and popularity 
in Ukraine, in the CIS, in Israel etc." She also claimed that "[a]ll seasons of the show in which [the 
Petitioner] was a co-host were hugely popular and were viewed by millions and millions of people," 
but the record does not include published television rankings or other statistical evidence to 
corroborate her statements. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his work onl I 
rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition I producer of indicated 
that the Petitioner worked as the host of that show "three full seasons starting in 2016, and that his 
contributions to the success of the show were significant." I !explained that the 
Petitioner "joined the original host of the show who was the face of the fofor six 
years,I I It was during that season that the show -which was already tremendously 
popular but had reached a bit of a plateau by its seventh year -enjoyed a great spike in popularity and 
ratings, a spike that continued all throughout the time when [the Petitioner] was a host onl I 
The record, however, does not include sufficient information or evidence to show that the Petitioner's 
hosting of constitutes a contribution of major significance in the 
entertainment field. 
FurthermoreJ administrative director for ______ in Ukraine, asserted that the 
Petitioner "is an extraordinaril= talented TV presenter on the most popular TV shows including I I I 11 11 I I and others. He is also a huge social 
media influencer with almost 2 million followers on Instagram .... "12 Whilel I further 
described the Petitioner as "a very talented and unique TV presenter," she did not offer specific 
examples of how his work has risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in his field. 
10 As previously noted, the record includes documentation indicating that received Russian Academy 
of Television awards in 2014, 2016 and 2018 for and National Council of 
Television and Radio Broadcasting ofUkrainel I awards in 2015 and 2016 for I I 
11 According to letter, is the sole holder of exclusive intellectual property rights" 
for thel I show. 
12 The Petitioner provided a screenshot of his Instagram profile reflecting that he has 1. 9 million followers. While this 
number of followers shows the Petitioner's level of popularity on social media, it does represent an original artistic or 
business-related contribution of major significance in the field. 
5 
Letters that specifically articulate how the individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and his impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record also includes promotional information from !website forl I ________ I I and I I Additionally, the 
Petitioner provided a Y ouTube screenshot for I and nine feedback comments posted at 
otzyvru.com. Furthermore, he presented YouTube screenshots from 2021 indicating that his number 
of subscribers increased from 166,000 (May 2021) to 217,000 (November 2021), but this subscription 
information post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the 
time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
availability of his shows onl land subscribership to his programs on YouTube signify 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that because he has 1.8 million Instagram followers and contracts 
with international brands such as I II II I andl "it is undoubtedly 
clear that the Petitioner's work significantly impacted and influenced the field of television." While 
the record indicates that the Petitioner has a achieved a level of popularity in the television industry 
and that he has received endorsement deals, he has not demonstrated that his original work rises to the 
level of artistic or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 14 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role forl I 
I 11 thel I the Ukrainian Soccer ClubLJ I II land the showl I 
With regard to his work for ________ the Petitioner rovided two letters from __ 
I I the company's director. In her April 2021 letter, indicated that the Petitioner 
"worked withl las a leading co-host of our show I from 
13 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
14 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
6 
August 2011 to November 2013, then in 2015, and then again from 2019 to March 2020. He was the 
second male co-host in the history of the show .... He was a leading host throughout the entire 
duration of his work with us." She further stated: "When the production team was shooting the show, 
[the Petitioner] often improvised, creating memorable moments that became the heart of our show .... 
He worked very hard, and was an integral part of our team's 'brain' during brainstorming sessions 
about next episodes." Whilel !discussed the Petitioner's role as co-host for thel I 
I I show, she did not provide specific, detailed information demonstrating the nature of the 
Petitioner's leading or critical role for 15 Furthermore, the record lacks 
evidence showing that ________ has a distinguished reputation. 
Likewise, regarding the Petitioner's involvement with the September 
2020 and April 2021 letters froml I the company's general manager, also discussed 
the Petitioner's work as TV host/presenter ofl I In his September 2020 letterO I I asserted that the Petitioner was the "creative visionary behind its lasting success" and that 
he "set the tone for the success of the show on our channel for years to come." Additionally, in his 
April 2021 letter, lstated that "[i]n his role of a TV host, [the Petitioner] always used his 
one-of-a-kind artistic talent, memorable sense of humor, and his unique way of making audiences 
engaged .... Inl I show, his influence was so strong that even after he left the show 
temporarily ... there was a very positive 'leftover effect."' Whilel I further contended 
that the Petitioner has "contributed significantly to increasing our channel's brand recognition and our 
profits," the record does not include television ratings data or company financial statements to 
corroborate his claim. I H also stated that the Petitioner "created and produced his own TV 
shows such as I (2014 ), I I (2016-2019), and I I The 
Petitioner, however, has not shown that his role as co-host or producer for the aforementioned 
television shows constitutes a leading or critical role forl Nor has the 
Petitioner presented evidence showing that the company has a distinguished reputation. 
The record also includes October 2020 and April 2021 letters from I I the mayor of 
the I I explaining how the Petitioner has assisted "in the development and 
implementation of the City strategy" on youth programs. In his October 2020 letter,I I 
indicated that the Petitioner was invited "to be a representative of I youth and the liaison 
between our young city residents and municipal authorities." Furthermore, in his April 2021 letter, 
I I stated that the Petitioner "conducts regular meetings with the city's youth to listen and 
to deliver to us their concerns -and to suggest proposals for the City Council to work on in relation 
to the needs of the city's youth." I I also asserted that, with respect to the cit 's tourism 
and recreation programs, the Petitioner "filmed a video about the city of I called I I in which he showed the sites of the city, including the coast ofth __ 
Thanks to [the Petitioner's] video, we were able to attract a lot of tourists from different parts of 
Ukraine and even from foreign countries." I I however, did not provide specific data, 
nor does the record include other corroborating evidence, showing that the Petitioner's video affected 
the number of tourists visiting the city. Whilel I indicated that the Petitioner has 
contributed to the city's youth programs, tourism, and cultural life, his statements are not sufficient to 
15 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role forl lwas leading or critical. For example, the record 
does not show that the Petitioner served in a leadership position or that he was responsible for the 
successes or outcomes of the city's operations or financial standing. In addition, the Petitioner has not 
offered evidence indicating that the I has a distinguished reputation. 
With respect to the Petitioner's role for the Ukrainian Soccer Clubl I he submitted a 
letter signed but the individual who authored the letter is not identified. 
The letter stated that the Petitioner has supported the team by attending matches, visiting training 
camp, bonding with players, mentioning the club during a I I episode, participating in 
charity auctions, and sending encouraging video messages to the team. Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how serving in the aforementioned roles shows his leading position forj I nor 
did he establish how his role resulted in critical or essential outcomes for the team. 
Additionally, the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE included a letter from 
head of marketing atj I stating that in "the winter of 2020, [the Petitioner] became the 
face of our brand in Ukraine and the celebrity brand ambassador for th brand .... So far, [the 
Petitioner] has starred in commercials for our winter 2020, spring 2021 and summer 2021 collections." 
The Petitioner's role forl I however, post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, 
however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
Regarding the Petitioner's role for the I I television show, he provided a 
letter from the show's producer, I discussing his work as the show's host. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), however, requires an individual to perform in a leading or 
critical role for "organizations or establishments." Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 
"organization" as an "association, society" or "an administrative and functional structure (such as a 
business or a political party)." It defines "establishment" as "something established" (such as a 
"church, a permanent civil or military organization, a place of business or residence with its 
furnishings and staff, a public or private institution"). See Merriam-Webster Dictionary's definition 
of both "organization" and "establishment." The Petitioner has not established that a television show 
constitutes an organization or establishment. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that I I I I has a distinguished reputation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the individual's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that an individual has performed 
in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet 
this criterion. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the 
individual's s commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 16 
16 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
8 
The Petitioner presented the April 2021 letter from I I of ________ 
production studio as evidence for this criterion. She indicated that her company "owes the tremendous 
commercial success of ourl I TV production I I to [ the Petitioner's] contributions, 
and that thanks to his original talent and expertise ... I I became one of the topl I 
shows in Ukraine and Russia of all times, based on viewership and brand recognition." The record, 
however, does not include independent television ratings reports, objective viewership data for 
programming, or over evidence to corroborate! lclaim. 17 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a separate statement froml !asserting that her company 
paid the Petitioner "$11,000.00 (eleven thousand) U.S. dollars for 1 (one episode) of the TV show 
from #412 to #430, the total number of which is 19 (e isodes ," but this compensation report reflects 
the Petitioner's remuneration for filming ______ episodes rather than the commercial 
success of his work in the performing arts as shown by "sales" or "receipts." He also provided 
Y ouTube screenshots for various 2011-2013 episodes of I I ( seasons two through 
seven) showing "views" for each episode ranging from 334,957 to 2,391,647. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that these "views" of the show on You Tube translate to his commercial 
successes relative to others in the industry in the form of "sales" or "receipts." The evidence presented 
here is insufficient to establish that the volume of sales or television revenue forl I 
reflects the Petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the 
performing arts. Accordingly, he has not established that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, 
original contributions, leading or critical role, or commercial successes. Although the Petitioner 
claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve these issues. 18 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
17 The September 2020 and April 2021 letters from I ofl I indicated that I I show was broadcast on his company's channel. While I asserted that the Petitioner has 
"contributed significantly to increasing our channel's brand recognition and our profits," the record does not include 
television ratings data or company financial statements to corroborate his claim. 
18 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2023 In Re: 25983327 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability by meeting at least three of the ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner appealed the decision, the decision was withdrawn, 
and the matter was remanded for entry of a new decision. The Director reevaluated the record and 
denied the petition, concluding that the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner meets at least 
three of the ten criteria to establish eligibility for the requested classification . The Petitioner filed a 
second appeal, and we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision. In support of the motion, the 
Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly applied the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the criterion 
for EB-1 eligibility requiring evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
In our prior appeal decision, which we incorporate by reference, we noted that for a leading role, we 
look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment or a division or department thereof For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence 
establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome ofthe 
organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the organization or 
establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. We noted that the Petitioner asserted that he had played critical and 
leading roles in a number of productions for client companies on high level media projects for major 
corporations; we further noted the letters in the record containing details about the Petitioner's digital 
modeling work on these projects, including a video forl IWe determined that the evidence 
did not establish that his contracted roles on these projects were leading or critical for any organization or 
establishment with a distinguished reputation. We stated that individual campaigns and projects are not 
divisions or departments of an organization or establishment. Further, we concluded that the Petitioner 
had not established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments or 
divisions thereof We additionally noted that the Petitioner submitted no evidence to address whether the 
advertising agencies have a distinguished reputation; instead, it improperly relied on the prominence of 
some of the agencies' clients. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that we erred in excluding from consideration the Petitioner's work 
as part of a team, including I Ithat created a social media campaign for~------~ 
2 
.______________ ___. was designated as a finalist for a Shorty Award in the Mobile 
Campaign category. 1 Further, the Petitioner also indicates that we did not ro erly consider the 
Petitioner's efforts working through his employer, a visual effects 
studio, on an ad campaign sponsored by the~___. Olympic Committee . ._____. a creative agency, 
won a Silver Marketing Award for Craft in the Cinematography category from I I 
Communications' Marketing A wards, and I Iand the Petitioner are among many individuals and 
businesses credited on the award's website2 for their participation in developing the project. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserts on motion that we ignored his request to consider whether his efforts 
on these projects that resulted in awards constituted a critical role. We disagree. Our previous decision 
clearly articulated that, based on the evidence in the record, his efforts on these projects did not 
constitute a critical role. 
The Petitioner also asserts on motion that we improperly discounted the Petitioner's role atlI lbecause he was not part of a division or department of an organization or estab~l-is_h_m_e_n_t_.. 
The Petitioner states that the focus should be on whether he "played a critical role, and whether the 
contribution resulted in a significant outcome to the organization." He states that the term 
"organization" in the criterion is not strictly defined and may be interpreted, according to Merriam­
Webster,3 as an "administrative and functional structure (such as a business or a political party)." The 
Petitioner also states that the term "organization" may be interpreted, according to the Cambridge 
Dictionary,4 as "a group of people who work together in an organized way for a shared purpose." On 
that basis he contends that his contributions to I I should be recognized as 
evidence of his critical roles for organizations. 
Our previous decision did not "discount" the Petitioner's roles at Notably, we '-----------' 
addressed the Petitioner's work on various projects and stated: 
... on any given project, the Petitioner was part of a creative team that involved varying 
numbers ofother artists and technicians performing assigned roles. The Petitioner has not 
established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments 
or divisions thereof Participation in a successful project is not automatically or 
presumptively a critical role for the organization, or a department or division of the 
organization, that undertook the project. 
A person's performance in a role determines whether the role is (or was) critical. We determined that 
the Petitioner did not meet his burden of proof with regard to whether any ofhis roles were critical. The 
evidence does not provide insight into how and in what manner the Petitioner's role as either a visual 
affects artist or animator was critical to a definable operational component or outcome of any specific 
organization. Thus, regardless of the definition of "organization" utilized, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently established his critical role in one. 
1 As explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner had previously acknowledged that thd campaign did not 
become a finalist for a Shorty A ward until after the petition's filing date. A petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.2(6)(1 ). 
2 See https://marketingawards.strategyonline.ca/winners/winner.__ __________ __. accessed July 31, 
2023. 
3 See https://merriam-webster.com/dictionary/organization. 
4 See https: //dictionary. cam bridge. org/us/ dictionary/ english/ organization. I
3 
Further, as noted above, our previous decision addressed the question ofwhether the agencies that the 
Petitioner worked for could be considered to have distinguished reputations; we determined that the 
Petitioner had not submitted evidence to address that possibility. The Petitioner must support its 
assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 
376. The Petitioner's current contention is that.__ _______ __.have distinguished reputations 
based on their "award winning" campaigns. However, similar to the deficiency related to his asserted 
critical roles, the Petitioner failed to meet his burden of proof relating to distinguished reputation. A 
distinguished reputation cannot be implied by association but must instead be established with 
relevant, probative, and credible evidence. Id. 
The Petitioner did not sufficiently establish that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not shown 
that our previous decision misinterpreted the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As we 
concluded previously, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Finally, we advised in our prior decision that although not required by Kazarian, we reviewed the 
record in the aggregate and determined that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. While the Petitioner 
has had some success providing image modeling for promotional use by prominent clients, we 
concluded that he had not shown that the recognition ofhis work rises to the required level of sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
ofthe Act. Moreover, we determined that the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). On motion, the Petitioner has not established that 
this determination was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that it was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
In the present case, we folly reviewed the evidence ofrecord and rendered our previous decision based 
on that evidence in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and USCIS policy. On motion to 
reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion will be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2024 In Re: 33406698 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
the initial evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria set forth in the regulations . The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can submit evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation establishing that they meet at least three 
of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Viscinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2dl339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist specializing in automotive journalism, with over 25 years of experience 
in the field. The record reflects he has also worked as a business owner and executive in the 
communications industry, an elected city councilor in municipal government in Brazil, and as a 
parliamentary assistant for the legislative assembly ofthe State of Sao Paulo. Based on the Petitioner's 
submitted professional plan, he intends to continue working as "an automobile journalist" in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to seven of the regulatory 
criteria, including lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes, published material 
in professional publications or major media, judging the work ofothers, original contributions ofmajor 
significance in his field, authorship of scholarly articles, leading or critical roles for organizations that 
have a distinguished reputation, and earning a high salary in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii)-(vi), (viii) and (iv). 
Of these seven criteria, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one, by providing evidence 
that he had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished 
reputation, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's determination based 
on evidence of the Petitioner's leadership role within the Brazilian Automotive Press Association. 
Although the Petitioner submits a brief in support of the appeal, he does not contest the Director's 
determination that he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to his receipt of 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in his field. An issue 
not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
(citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
In his brief, the Petitioner asserts that he has established by a preponderance of the evidence that he 
meets the five remaining claimed criteria, which we will discuss below. Upon reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies 
at least three criteria. 
1. Published Materials 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), a petition must include "published material about 
the person in professional or major trade publications or other major media relating to the person's 
work in the field for which classification is sought." In evaluating whether a submitted publication is 
a professional publication, major trade publication or other major media, relevant factors include the 
intended audience (for professional and major trade publications), and the relative circulation, 
readership or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing how USCIS evaluates 
initial evidence of extraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner's initial evidence included published materials appearing in 
various Brazilian print and online publications, including A Vos do Pavo, Jornal do Interior, Jornal 
Votura, Cheiro do Mato, Comandonoticia.com, and ShopCar News. In a request for evidence (RFE), 
the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted articles did not discuss or relate to the Petitioner's 
work as a journalist, but rather discuss his ostrich farm, his work as a company director for 
I I and his work in local government. The Director also emphasized that his initial submission 
lacked documentation needed to establish that any of the submitted publications are professional 
publications, major trade publications or other major media, as the record lacked evidence regarding 
the publications' intended audience or data regarding their relative circulation, readership or 
distribution. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE focused solely on an article titled I I which was published in the newspaper Falha de Sao Paulo. The Petitioner emphasized 
that the article "directly relates to [the petitioner's] involvement in the automotive sector, specifically 
featuring his photography work showcasing the new Chevrolet Vectra model, indicating his 
professional engagement within the industry." The subject of the article is the upcoming release of an 
automobile in the Brazilian market. Although the Petitioner's name is mentioned, he is merely 
credited for contributing the photographs that appear in the article. Therefore, while the record 
contains sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Falha de Sao Paulo qualifies as major media in Brazil, 
we agree with the Director's determination that this article does not qualify as published material about 
the Petitioner and relating to his work in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner requests reevaluation of two newspaper articles published in the newspaper 
Jorn al Votura in June 2012. The Petitioner contends these articles, which are about him and a project 
he undertook as director ofl Ito bring newspapers to local schools, do in fact relate to his 
work in the field ofjournalism. While the record supports this assertion, it lacks evidence to support 
the Petitioner's claim that this newspaper is a major media publication. At the time of filing, the 
Petitioner stated that Jornal Votura "has a wide reach in the state of Sao Paulo, which is the richest 
state in Brazil and has 44.04 million inhabitants." He also emphasized that this newspaper is "part of 
thel Iwhich has "more than 39 years' experience in the market." However, as noted by 
3 
the Director in the RFE, this statement is not sufficient to demonstrate that Jornal Votura's relative 
circulation qualifies it as "major media" among newspapers in Brazil. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that this publication (which he states is now known as Jornal 
Indaiatuba News) circulates within Brazil's most populous state and is part of the I I He 
emphasizes that it "boasts a social media following of over 40,000 individuals" and submits a 
screenshot from the newspaper's Facebook page showing 44,000 followers as of 2024. However, the 
record continues to lack evidence regarding the circulation of this newspaper and how it compares to 
that of other newspapers in Brazil. This information regarding the newspaper's current social media 
following is insufficient to demonstrate that Jornal Votura qualifies as a major media publication. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2. Judging 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner must provide evidence of his 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied 
field of specialization for which classification is sought. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that he has served as a jury member 
for the annual Brazilian Automotive Press Association's annual ABIAUTO awards and for Brazil's 
Top Car TV awards. The Petitioner emphasized that the ABIAUTO awards bring together more than 
40 specialized journalists from throughout Brazil who "participat[e] in the elections of the best cars in 
Brazil which are divided into eight categories." The evidence indicates that the Top Car TV awards 
follow a similar process and serve a similar purpose. The Director observed that while the Petitioner's 
area of expertise as a journalist may focus on the automotive industry, the plain language of the 
criterion requires that the petitioner judge the work of others in the same or an allied field. The 
Director concluded he did not meet the criterion, emphasizing "the petitioner is a journalist, and the 
evidence does not establish that he judged the work of other journalists." 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional background information regarding automotive 
journalism and automobile manufacturing. He maintains that "automotive journalists must possess an 
intimate understanding of the intricacies of the automotive industry and its operational processes." 
Further, the Petitioner objects to the Director's determination that he must demonstrate he has judged 
the work ofother journalists. He maintains this conclusion "appears overly reductionist and apparently 
diverges from the primary intent of this requirement, which is to demonstrate his position as an expert 
in his field, being part of a small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner's judging activities do not 
satisfy the plain language ofthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). As emphasized by the Director 
the regulation require evidence that the individual has 'judged the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specialization for which classification is sought." The Petitioner seeks extraordinary 
ability classification based on his expertise in journalism, and more specifically, automotive 
journalism. His participation on a jury responsible for selecting the "best cars" in different vehicle 
categories does not involve judging the work ofother individuals working in his field or an allied field. 
4 
Rather, the record indicates that the juries for the ABTAUTO and Top Car TV awards evaluate the 
features and performance of passenger vehicles, rather than the work or performance of individuals 
working in the field ofjournalism, or even the work of specific individuals working in the automotive 
industry. As such, we find the Director did not apply an overly restrictive interpretation of the plain 
language of this regulation. 
The Petitioner also argues that following the Director's logic, "a professor of neurosurgery, for 
instance, would be expected to demonstrate the fulfillment of these criteria solely through the 
evaluation ofother professors' work, rather than assessing papers developed by students and submitted 
for presentation at scholarly conferences in the field ofneurosurgery, as illustrated in the USCTS Policy 
Manual." We agree with the Petitioner that a professor's review of student papers in the same 
academic field would be a qualifying judging activity under the plain language of this regulation and 
note that a similar example can be found at 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 1 However, 
the Petitioner has not presented evidence that he has, for example, judged the work of students in the 
field of journalism or otherwise established that the facts here parallel the examples provided in the 
USCJS Policy Manual. 
The Petitioner's participation in the juries of the ABIAUTO and Top Car TV awards demonstrates 
that he has received recognition in the field of automotive journalism and such evidence would be 
considered in evaluating whether he has achieved national acclaim in his field in a final merits 
determination. However, for the reasons discussed, the evidence does not establish that his judging 
activities satisfy the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
3. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has made original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic or business-related contributions of major significance in his field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In evaluating this criterion, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's reliance on his receipt ofcertain 
awards, his publication of articles and reviews as an automotive journalist, his publication of a book 
on the history of the municipality of I I his career as an elected official, certain public 
service projects related to his career in government, and his participation in automotive industry 
events, among other evidence. In the RFE, the Director addressed this evidence and explained why it 
was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner had made original contributions of major 
significance in the field of journalism, noting, in part, that several of the claimed contributions were 
unrelated to this field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner focused solely on his publication of the book 
I Ito establish his eligibility under this criterion, noting that his decision 
to write the book "emerged from a dire need to document and compile the history of I I 
1 The USCIS Policy Manual provides examples ofjudging the work of others that include "serving as a member of a Ph.D. 
dissertation committee that makes the final judgment as to whether a candidate's body of work satisfies the requirements 
for a doctoral degree, as evidenced by departmental records" and "peer review of abstracts or papers submitted for 
presentation at scholarly conferences in the respective field." 
5 
municipality."2 He provided a statement from the book's publisher indicating that 1,000 copies were 
printed in 2002, along with a declaration from the I Imunicipal secretary ofeducation stating 
that the book "is available for public consultation in the Municipal Library and also used in schools." 
The education secretary further states the book is "very important material for the community, which 
recounts and records the history of the municipality." Finally, the Petitioner provided his own 
statement, in which he explains his motivation for writing the book and some details regarding its 
subject matter. The Petitioner stated that the work "ended up being a milestone in the municipality" 
and "has been used for more than 20 years in the municipal education network, reaching approximately 
10,000 students." 
The Director acknowledged the evidence submitted in response to the RFE and granted that the 
Petitioner's book is an original contribution and deemed to be "significant to the Municipality of 
I I However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not meet his burden to demonstrate that 
is a contribution that is of major significance in the field of 
journalism, and therefore did not establish that he meets the plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his book relied on his collaboration with local historians, 
notable personalities and residents to gather insights about the history ofl Iand represents 
a "substantial contribution to the field of historical documentation." While he acknowledges the 
Director's determination that he did not establish the book's major significance within the field of 
journalism, he asserts that "it is pivotal to acknowledge that [his] objective was to document the local 
history rather than solely cater to the journalism industry." In this regard, he states that "the lack of 
extensive distribution within journalism circles does not diminish the significance of [his] work." He 
explains that the book's "sustained integration within the educational framework for over two decades 
... underscores its enduring relevance and impact transcending the realm ofjournalism." Finally, he 
asserts the Director "overlooked 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4), which permits the petitioner to present 
comparable evidence" to establish extraordinary ability. 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner has established that his publication of 
I I is an original contribution based on its subject matter. However, the record does 
not demonstrate that the book has been cited by other authors, has provoked widespread commentary 
on its importance ( either in the field ofjournalism or the field of "historical documentation"), or has 
otherwise had an influence or impact that rises to the level of "major significance." The fact that it is 
available at the municipal public library and may still be used in the local public schools alone is 
insufficient to demonstrate how the book's impact or influence is of major significance. Further, the 
record shows that book was not widely distributed as only 1,000 copies were printed. While it appears 
that the Petitioner relied on journalistic techniques in writing the book to fill a course requirement for 
his undergraduate degree, its major significance in the field of journalism is not documented in the 
record. 
As noted, the Petitioner claims on appeal that the Director should have considered his book under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), which provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to 
2 A translated excerpt from the book indicates that it was written by the Petitioner for "completion ofcourse work presented 
as a partial requirement for obtaining the Bachelor's Deg. in Social Communication Qualification in Journalism." The 
book was published in 2002 and the Petitioner received his bachelor's degree from I Iin 
March 2003. 
6 
establish eligibility. When evaluating comparable evidence, USCTS must consider whether a given 
criterion is readily applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is 
truly comparable to that criterion. A general unsupported assertion that a listed evidentiary criterion 
does not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation is not probative. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
Here, the Petitioner has not articulated a claim that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) is not 
readily applicable to his occupation. In fact, as discussed further below, the Petitioner claims that his 
body of work as an automotive journalist represents an original contribution of major significance. 
Further, he did not previously assert that he sought to meet this criterion under the comparable 
evidence provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Regardless, for the reasons discussed above, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that his book represents an original contribution ofmajor significance, 
either in the field ofjournalism or in another peripheral field. 
The Petitioner emphasizes on appeal that he "has authored numerous original articles across various 
formats and platforms within the journalistic media landscape." In this regard, he states his work has 
been "featured in widely cited circulated periodicals within his region, and notably he has also 
contributed to one of Brazil's foremost newspapers, Falha de Sao Paulo." He also emphasizes that 
he has submitted both published materials and supporting letters affirming the substantial significance 
of these extensive contributions." 
While the record contains ample evidence ofnewspaper and magazine articles the Petitioner published 
in his capacity as an automotive journalist, we agree with the Director's observation that, given the 
nature of the profession, simply demonstrating that he has authored articles and automotive reviews 
that have reached a significant audience in his region is not sufficient to demonstrate the major 
significance of his work in the field ofjournalism. 
We have also reviewed the submitted recommendation letters, as detailed letters from experts in the 
field may provide valuable context for evaluating this criterion. Such letters should specifically 
describe the person's original contribution and its significance in the field. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)( 1 ). Here, the recommendation letters offer enthusiastic praise for the 
Petitioner's knowledge, skills and experience as a journalist, but do not describe his specific 
contributions and their major significance. 3 
For example, a letter from N-N-, a fellow journalist, praises the Petitioner's "professional capacity and 
commitment" and his production of "high quality content for the car segment" for readers with an 
interest in this area. He states that the Petitioner has "many achievements and accomplishments" but 
does not identify a specific original contribution or its major significance in the field of journalism. 
He also provided a letter from P-L-D-, a retired General Motors executive, who describes the Petitioner 
as "one ofthe most qualified automotive journalistic writers and photographers" he has met. He states 
that the Petitioner's "critical reviews have been helping many of our clients to choose the perfect 
vehicle for their needs which is why his work has been truly useful not only for us as a company, but 
3 While we do not discuss each letter individually, we have reviewed each one. We note that several of the letters do not 
discuss the Petitioner's work as a journalist but instead focus on his work in municipal government, which is not the field 
in which he intends to work in the United States. 
7 
also for consumers." He concludes that the Petitioner "has made significant contributions not only to 
the market but mostly to society" but does not elaborate on this broad statement. Several other letters 
similarly highlight that the Petitioner's published reviews provide important information to consumers 
while also helping manufacturers to bring attention to their brands. However, the testimonial evidence 
does not demonstrate how the Petitioner's publication of automobile reviews in mostly regional 
newspapers and magazines presents a contribution of major significance in the field of automotive 
journalism. Further, it is reasonable to conclude that these types of reviews and articles, regardless of 
whether they are written by the Petitioner or another journalist in the field, are universally intended to 
provide helpful information to consumers while promoting the manufacturers' latest models. 
A letter from the founder of Carro magazine, states the Petitioner possesses "remarkable" knowledge 
in the automotive area and "has contributed a lot to the history of automotive journalism in Brazil, 
based on his many years of experience in "writing, photography, investigation and critical thinking." 
But the letter does not provide sufficient detail or explanation to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
influenced or impacted the field of automotive journalism or detail his specific contributions to "the 
history" of the field. 
Overall, the recommendation letters demonstrate that the Petitioner is a highly regarded professional 
in his field who has earned the respect of fellow journalists and automobile executives alike. However, 
it is does not demonstrate that he has made original contributions of major significance in his field. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
4. High Salary 
To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or 
remuneration 
is high relative to the compensation paid to others in the field. To determine whether a 
person's compensation is high relative to others, USCIS will consider comparative evidence, such as 
geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner claims that he has earned a high salary in his role as a "Parliamentary Assistant III" 
with the I I He states that his monthly remuneration 
was more than double the average monthly salary for journalists in Brazil. In support of this claim, 
the Petitioner has submitted: 
• His pay statements from I I for the months of November 2021 to January 2022; 
• His Brazilian Individual Income Tax Return for calendar year 2021; 
• "Salary Floor" information for journalists published by the Union of Professional 
Journalists in the State of Sao Paolo; 
• Salaries for journalists in Brazil, published by Glassdoor.com; 
• Job duties and requirements for "Parliamentary Assistant" positions withinl Iand 
• An excerpt from a February 2019 resolution passed by the Board of the Legislative 
Assembly of the State of Sao Paulo, which relates to staff appointment procedures and 
systems. 
8 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that his role as a "Parliamentary 
Assistant III" is comparable to the journalist positions that are included in the two submitted salary 
surveys, noting that both reflect salaries for journalists "working in various kinds of media such as 
newspapers, magazines, radio and TV." The Director also emphasized that he did not provide 
evidence to establish that his salary with I Iis high "when compared to others in the position of 
Parliamentary Assistant III." 
Upon review, we disagree with the Director that the Petitioner did not provide an appropriate basis for 
a salary comparison. The evidence documenting the duties and professional qualifications required 
for the "parliamentary assistant III" position with I Iindicate that the position performs "activities 
typical of the profession ofjournalist" and requires "professional registration as a journalist, as issued 
by the Ministry of Labor." Further, while the salary data provided by the Union of Professional 
Journalists in the State of Sao Paolo provides average wages for those employed by print media 
publications and radio and television, it also provides salary information for those employed by press 
offices. The record contains evidence that the Petitioner's position with I I was referred to 
internally as "press officer" based on the job title stated on his government-issued employee credential. 
However, the comparative salary information does not demonstrate that the Petitioner earned a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to other similarly employed journalists. 
The "salary floor" published by the Union of Professional Journalists in Sao Paulo indicates "standard 
salaries" for journalists employed by press offices as R$ 4,057 or R$ 6,521 for 2021-2022 depending 
on whether they work a "5 hour floor" or "7 hour floor," presumably referring to the daily hours 
worked. The more general data provided by Glassdoor.com indicates that the average monthly salary 
for a journalist in Brazil is R$ 3,307, with a range extending from R$ 2,000 to R$ 7,000. 
The Petitioner's pay statements froml Iindicate that he received total monthly payments ranging 
from R$ 7025 to R$ 8786, which included a consistent "base salary" ofR$ 3075. 71. His total monthly 
remuneration included a "legislative bonus" of over R$ 1800, a "representation bonus" of over 
R$ 1100 per month, and varying amounts of "food aid" and "health aid." The Petitioner's claim that 
he commanded a high salary therefore appears to be based on a comparison of his total monthly 
remuneration to the monthly salaries of other journalists. The record does not contain comparative 
data showing how his total remuneration compares to that of other journalists and therefore does not 
establish that such remuneration was "significantly high" as required by the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Further, the record does not show that the base salary reflected 
on his pay statements is high compared to that earned by other journalists. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the four evidentiary criteria discussed 
above. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the remaining contested criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) cannot change the outcome ofthe appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address 
that remaining issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, 
federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results 
9 
they reach); see also Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. lO(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten regulatory criteria as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 13, 2024 In Re: 33517000 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional dancer, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" and document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that, contrary 
to the Act, the Petitioner did not demonstrate: her extraordinary ability in her field; her intent to 
continue working in the field in the United States; or her work's substantial prospective benefit to the 
country. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence and misunderstood 
law. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she established: her intent to continue work in her field in the United States; 
her work's substantial prospective benefit to the country; and satisfaction of the required number of 
initial evidentiary criteria regarding extraordinary ability. We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for a final merits determination and entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" 
or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a 
petitioner meets either standard, USCIS must then make a final merits determination as to whether the 
record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 201 0); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese native and citizen, entered the 
at age 17. She ranked fifth among the 16 women accepted that year from more than l 0,000 applicants. 
Four years later, in 2010, she graduated first in her class with a bachelor's degree in Chinese ethnic 
and folk dance performance. She then joined the serving as 
the national ensemble's lead dancer. The troupe travels the world, introducing foreign citizens to 
Chinese songs and dances. Later, the Petitioner was among 13 people chosen from about 20,000 
applicants to attend the _______ In 2021, while still dancing for the troupe, she 
obtained a master of fine arts degree in drama performance. Her thesis discussed the incorporation of 
dance movements into theatrical performances. 
Now in the United States, the Petitioner initially stated her intent to continue her professional dance 
career in this country. She later submitted evidence that she and two other Chinese dance colleagues 
have established a U.S. company that would operate a dance studio, training customers in a variety of 
dance styles, including modem dance, Chinese dance, ballet, and hip-hop. 
We will first consider whether the Petitioner demonstrated her intent to continue working in her field 
in the United States. 
A. The Petitioner's Intent to Continue Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
Noncitizens with extraordinary ability must 
"seek[] to enter the United States to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability." Section 203 (b )( 1 )(A)( ii) of the Act. This category requires neither job 
offers nor certifications from the U.S. Department of Labor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). But a petition 
must include "clear evidence that the [ noncitizen] is coming to the United States to continue work in 
the area of expertise." Id. 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
l. The Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Director and the Petitioner disagree on her "area of extraordinary ability." The Director defined 
the Petitioner's field of expertise as performance dancing, citing her listing of "dancer" as the job title 
in Part 6, "Basic Information About the Proposed Employment," ofthe Form I-140, Immigrant Petition 
for Alien Worker. The Director indicated that she would consider evidence only related to the 
Petitioner's dancing performances. The Director stated that "you may only apply one profession per 
Form I-140" and that "you may not combine [your professions] to meet 3 criteri[ a] and [the] final 
merits analysis [ for extraordinary ability]." 
The Petitioner contends that her area of extraordinary ability extends beyond dancing performances to 
include the broader field of "dance." She asserts: "The law requires consideration of all relevant 
capacities within the same area of expertise, encompassing [her] roles as a dancer, choreographer, and 
dance instructor." 
Neither the Act, regulations, nor USCIS policy specify how to determine a petitioner's area of 
expertise. The Director and the Petitioner cite U.S. district court decisions reaching different 
outcomes. The Director cites a decision affirming the immigration service's denial of a petition by an 
acclaimed Korean baseball player who sought to coach the sport in the United States. See Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F.Supp.2d 914, 915 (N.D. Ill. 2002). The court stated: "It is reasonable to interpret 
continuing to work in one's 'area of extraordinary ability' as working in the same profession in which 
one has extraordinary ability, not necessarily in any profession in that field." Id. at 918. 
The Petitioner, however, cites a decision finding that, where a noncitizen listed his intended U.S. job 
title as "clergyman," USCIS too narrowly defined his field as "education." Gulen v. Chertoff, No. 07-
2148, 2008 WL 2779001, *2 (E.D. Pa. July 16, 2008); see also Buletini v. INS, 860 F.Supp. 1222, 
1229 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (finding that the Act "does not demand that the [noncitizen]'s extraordinary 
ability be narrowed to a specific topic of ... study or that [a petitioner] show that [they are] seeking 
to enter the United States to continue work in the specific areas for which [they have] gained acclaim 
in the past"). 
We need not follow any of the three cited cases. See Matter ofDuarte-Gonzalez, 28 I&N Dec. 688, 
690 n.2 (BIA 2023) (stating that U.S. district court cases do not bind other tribunals). But we do not 
interpret the cases to conflict, and they persuade us that the Petitioner's appropriate area of expertise 
is the broader field of "dance." All three courts examined their records to determine the noncitizens' 
areas of extraordinary ability. See Lee, 237 F.Supp.2d at 917; Gu/en, at *3; Buletini, 860 F.Supp. at 
1230. In Lee, the petitioner did not submit any evidence of recognition he received as a coach. Lee, 
237 F.Supp.2d at 917 ("[T]he record only shows Lee's achievements as a player, not a coach"). Thus, 
the record supported limiting his area of extraordinary ability to baseball playing and excluding 
baseball coaching. In contrast, the records in Gulen and Buletini showed the petitioners' respective 
acclaim in various areas beyond "education" and "nephrology," the respective fields applied by the 
immigration service. Gulen, at *3; Buletini, 860 F.Supp. at 1230. 
Similar to Gulen and Buletini, an examination ofthis record shows that the Petitioner garnered acclaim 
not only as a dancer but also as a choreographer and dance instructor. She submitted evidence that 
she received an "Original Choreography Award" at an international dance competition and the 
3 
honorary title of "Ambassador of Chinese Dance Aesthetic Education" at a Chinese youth dance 
competition. These materials indicate that her area of extraordinary ability extends beyond that of 
dancing performances to also include choreography and dance instruction. 
The record shows the Petitioner's receipt of acclaim as a dancer, choreographer, and dance instructor. 
We therefore find that her area of extraordinary ability is not limited to "dancer" but includes the 
broader field of "dance."2 We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
2. The Petitioner's Intended Work in the United States 
Evidence of petitioners' intent to continue working in their areas of extraordinary ability in the United 
states may include: letters from prospective employers; evidence of prearranged commitments such 
as contracts; or statements detailing plans on how they intend to continue their work in the United 
States. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
In the Petitioner's initial filing, she submitted a statement, indicating: "I am eager to establish myself 
as a professional dancer in the United States. To this end, I have actively reached out and engaged 
with several organizations dedicated to the promotion of dance education and performance." She 
suggested that she might work for a specific U.S. nonprofit organization that promotes Chinese dance 
education and creation. She stated: "I am enthusiastic about joining forces with this esteemed 
organization to further my dance career in the United States." 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE), however, the Petitioner, for the 
first time, indicated an intent to establish a U.S. dance studio, where she stated she would both dance 
and teach. She submitted a business plan and evidence of the formation of a U.S. corporation to 
operate the studio in January 2024, more than two months after the petition's filing in November 2023. 
She stated: 
[H]opefully, I will impart the dance expertise that I've learned to those who are keen 
on dance, pass on and develop Chinese dance culture, absorb and incorporate the 
essence of Western dance culture and blend the elements of dance in varied cultural 
contexts to develop more novel and international-based forms of dance. 
The Director did not treat the Petitioner's initial statement as evidence. The record contains a 
certificate of translation regarding the statement. But the statement is in English. Because the record 
lacks a copy of the statement in a foreign language, the Director refused to consider the English 
statement. 
The relevant regulation, however, requires an English language translation for "[a]ny document 
containing foreign language." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The regulation does not conversely require a 
document containing foreign language for any English language translation. The Petitioner's 
2 Our finding is also consistent with USCIS policy regarding former athletes who seek to coach in the United States. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(A)(2) ("[I]n general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching or managing at a national level, 
officers can consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise.") 
4 
statement did not contain foreign language. Therefore, the regulation does not apply to it. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
The Director's RFE did not notify the Petitioner of USCTS' disregard of her statement. On appeal, 
she said that she prepared the statement in English, intending to avoid the need for a translation. We 
will therefore consider the Petitioner's initial statement. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner's initial statement insufficiently detailed how she would 
continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability. According to the Director: "Statements only 
expressing your prospective hopes of finding work or offering vague ambitions do not constitute 
detailed plans or the type of clear evidence that demonstrates eligibility under 8 C.F.R. [§] 
204.5(h)( 5)." 
The Petitioner, however, need not provide a job offer. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Thus, her statement 
that she intends to work as a professional dancer in the United States and that she has contacted 
prospective employers is sufficiently detailed. See Gulen, at *4 ("We find that, so long as regulations 
exhibit a clear intent not to require that a petitioner has an offer of employment, there is no basis for 
requiring a more precise statement ofwhat activities he or she intends to engage in ... than [to] identify 
the categories of work they intend to seek"). The Petitioner therefore demonstrated her intent to 
continue work in her field at the time of the petition's filing. 
The Director also refused to consider the Petitioner's later evidence of her intent to establish a U.S. 
dance studio. Noting that the studio's proposed operating company was not formed until after the 
petition's filing, the Director stated that she could not consider the later evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(1) (requiring a petitioner to demonstrate eligibility "at the time of filing the benefit 
request"). 
But, by submitting her initial statement that she would seek a job as a professional dancer, the 
Petitioner established her intent to continue work in her field in the United States at the time of the 
petition's filing. Her later evidence indicates that, after the petition's filing, she decided to establish a 
U.S. dance studio, which is also consistent with her broad field of dance. We acknowledge that a 
petitioner may not make material changes to a petition that has already been filed. Matter ofIzwnmi, 
22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (AAO 1998). But the Petitioner's later plan to establish a U.S. dance studio 
does not constitute a material change based on the facts of this specific case. Establishing a dance 
studio -like seeking a job as a dancer-falls within the broad field of"dance," her area ofextraordinary 
ability. Thus, consistent with 8 C .F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ), the Petitioner has demonstrated her intent to 
continue work in her field in the United States "at the time of the petition's filing and ... through 
adjudication." 
The Petitioner demonstrated her intent to continue work in her field in the United States. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
B. Substantial Benefit to the United States 
To qualify as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability, a noncitizen's work must "substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States." Section 203(b )( l )(A)(iii) ofthe Act. Neither the Act nor regulations 
5 
define the phrase "substantially benefit." But we have interpreted it broadly. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(A)(3). For example, we have found that a professional golfer would substantially 
benefit the United States in the future based on "the enormous popularity of golf in this country." See 
Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 (AAO 1994). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the substantial benefit of her proposed 
U.S. work. Defining her field as performance dance, the Director found that the Petitioner's 
establishment of a U.S. dance studio would render her dancing "incidental" to her work as a dance 
instructor at the studio. The Director stated: "[T]he evidence does not establish how your hobby or 
incidental employment as a professional dancer will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States." 
As previously discussed, however, the Petitioner's appropriate area of expertise is the broader field of 
"dance," including dancing, choreography, and dance instruction. Thus, both the Petitioner's dancing 
and dance instruction at the dance studio would fall under her field of expertise. Also, the record 
indicates that her teaching of Chinese dance to U.S. students would substantially benefit the United 
States by diversifying the country's dance culture. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(A)(3) 
(broadly interpreting "substantially benefit" in section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has demonstrated that her U.S. work would substantially 
benefit the country. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
C. Extraordinary Ability 
The record does not establish -nor does the Petitioner claim -her receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria: 
evidence of the display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, she contends that she also submitted evidence of: 
• Her receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in her field; 
• Published material about her relating to her work in the field; 
• Her participation as the judge of others' work in the field; 
• Her original contributions of major significance to the field; 
• Her authorship of scholarly articles in the field; 
• Her performance in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization; and 
• Her commandment of high salary or remuneration. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (viii), (ix). We must determine whether her evidence 
"objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description." See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). 
6 
l. Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [noncitizen]'s receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner -as opposed, for 
example, to their employer -received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then determines whether an award was nationally or internationally 
recognized and received for excellence in the field of endeavor. Id. Relevant considerations include: 
criteria used to grant awards; their national or international significance; the number of awardees; and 
any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she received: 
• A second prize for creation of a solo dance at a 2011 dance competition that the Chinese 
government sponsored; 
• An "Original Choreography Award" at the grand finals of a 2022-23 world dance competition; 
• The title "The Best Young Dancer of China" at a 2012 international Chinese arts festival; and 
• The honorary title "Ambassador of Chinese Dance Aesthetic Education" at 2019 Chinese 
youth dance competition. 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the Petitioner's awards received national or international 
recognition. We agree that the record lacks sufficient evidence ofnational or international recognition 
of her awards from the 2012 arts festival and the 2022-23 and 2019 dance competitions. 
The record, however, indicates that the Petitioner's award at the 2011 government dance competition 
received national recognition. She submitted two online articles from a Chinese news agency 
describing the 2011 competition as "the national highest dance competition." One article states that 
the competition received 694 applications from across all of China's 31 provinces, autonomous 
regions, and municipalities under central government control. A Ministry of Arts official told the 
news agency that most of the country's best choreographers and dancers "emerged" at these triennial 
government dance competitions and that many award-winning competition programs later became 
"excellent works" performed on stage. Also, the art director/deputy head of the Petitioner's dance 
troupe called the dance competition "truly the highest-level professional dance contest and the most 
authoritative competition in China." 3 
The Director suggested that the Chinese government may have restricted participation in the 2011 
dance competition. The Director stated: "[O]ne of the competitions appears to be Government 
sponsored, thereby limiting participants for entry by Government approval." The record, however, 
3 The Director did not consider the letter from the troupe's art director/deputy head or some other recommendation letters 
that the Petitioner submitted. The Director concluded that the letters lack the authors' addresses. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(g)(l) 
(requiring a letter from a petitioner's current or former employer to "include the name, address, and title of the writer"). 
That regulation, however, applies only to "[e ]vidence relating to qualifying experience or training." 8 C.F .R. § 204 .5(g)(l ). 
We are considering the letter from the troupe's art director/deputy head as evidence ofthe Petitioner's receipt ofnationally 
recognized awards. The regulation therefore does not apply. 
7 
lacks evidence that the competition's applicants required Chinese government approval. The 
Petitioner therefore sufficiently demonstrated that her 2011 award received national recognition. 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner submitted evidence of her receipt of a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in her field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B) 
("[ A ]!though some of the regulatory language relating to evidence occasionally uses plurals, it is 
entirely possible that the presentation of a single piece of evidence in a specific evidentiary category 
may be sufficient.") We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
2. Judge of Others' Work 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of [their] part1c1pation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification 
for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). A petitioner must show not only their 
invitation to judge others' work, but also their actual participation in the judging. See generally 
6 USCJS Policy Manual F .(2)(B)( 1 ). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of an April 2023 letter from the sponsor ofa world dance competition, 
inviting her to serve as a judge at the event. Copies of pages from the sponsor's website contain 
pictures and biographical information about her and the other four judges. 
The Director acknowledged evidence ofthe Petitioner's invitation to serve as a judge. But the Director 
found that, contrary to the evidentiary requirement, her documentation did not demonstrate her actual 
"participation" as a judge. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred. She points to her response to the Director's 
request for additional evidence, which included copies of a certificate from the sponsor listing her and 
the other judges, and their review notes. 
The certificate listing the judges does not establish the Petitioner's participation as a judge at the 
competition. The review notes, however, include the judges' comments after the competition's first 
day. The Petitioner's notes indicate her participation as a judge. Her notes state, in part: "In today's 
programmes, I have seen some movement mistakes caused by insufficient daily training or nervous 
emotions during the performance." Thus, the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated her participation 
as a judge of others' work in the same or an allied field. 
The Petitioner has met the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has satisfied at least three of ten evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i­
x). We therefore need not consider her arguments that she meets other evidentiary criteria. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
8 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the Petitioner's filing. The Director did not 
make such a finding. Rather than make the determination in the first instance, we will remand the 
matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognition of her achievements in her field, identifying her as one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). 
The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, even if it does not fit one of 
the evidentiary criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The evidence's type and 
quality should determine the petition's approval or denial. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner demonstrated: her intent to continue work in her field in the United States; her work's 
substantial prospective benefit to the country; and satisfaction of at least three of ten evidentiary 
requirements regarding extraordinary ability. USCIS must now make a final merits determination on 
the petition. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2024 In Re: 33752638 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the 
ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a financial manager who has held positions ofresponsibility in various capital venture 
firms and founded her own investment firm, I I (N-). 1 She provided documentary evidence 
about her work within this field, including among other things, testimonial letters, major media articles 
and other forms of recognition of her capital investment activities and those of her employers and 
clients. The Petitioner intends to pursue her career in the venture capital industry in the United States. 
She asserts: 
[I am] a well-accomplished financial expert in the venture capital arena, holding 
significant positions at two distinguished firms [K-and N-]. In these roles, [I have] 
spearheaded angel-round investments for over 100 startups, significantly impacting the 
growth of many notable technology companies. Beyond providing financial supports, 
[I] also significantly contributed to talent acquisition, the provision of technological 
resources, and strategic development guidance. [I] enabled these startups to tap into a 
vast network of industry contacts, potential customers, partners and investors, aiding 
in the ascent of [currently NASDAQ-listed companies] from their early stages to 
successful public listings. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by providing 
sufficient evidence that material had been published about her in major trade publications or major 
media and had judged the work of others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two other criteria, including the leading or critical 
role with a distinguished organization criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). She asserts that the 
Director erred in determining that she did not meet the plain language of these two criteria. 
1 The Petitioner indicated in the petition that she intends to be employed within the "Financial Managers" occupation 
should this petition be approved. DOL's Occupational Information Network (O*NET) summary report for "Financial 
Managers," may be viewed athttps://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/11-3031.00. 
2 
As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality ofthe evidence in the context ofa final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself: and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing ofthe organization or establishment. To meet this 
criterion, the person must establish that they have performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in significantly important 
ways to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contended before the Director that she performed in leading or critical roles for the 
venture capital firms where she was employed, including K-and N-. The Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not meet this criterion concluding that the record lacked sufficient evidence that she had 
contributed in a significantly important way to these firms. They also determined that the Petitioner 
only provided general information about these firms and did not, for instance, establish that these firms 
enjoyed distinguished reputations by offering sufficient evidence, such as material about the awards, 
recognition, or achievements garnered by these organizations. Based on our de novo review of the 
record, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
sufficient to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not sufficiently consider the significance of her 
responsibilities and contributions to K-and N-. For instance, she points to initially submit evidence 
about her employment with K-, noting that her employment verification letter from K-offered "an 
organizational chart detailing her position as an Early-Stage Fund Managing Partner and detailed her 
responsibilities in fundraising and co-managing RMB funds of 1.5 billion yuan and USD funds of 
$170 million." 
The Petitioner also references other evidence about her work with K-, including an email issued by K­
contemporaneous to her resignation from that company that detailed and acknowledged her 
contributions to the company, and media reports showing that she garnered I 
Investor of the Year in 2016" while employed with K-. This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that 
the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for K-. The Petitioner also provided evidence to 
3 I 
demonstrate that K-manages over 600 portfolio companies across a variety of industries and enjoys a 
distinguished reputation in the Petitioner's home country, earning industry awards for excellence 
within the venture capital field. 
The testimonial letters, media reports and documentary evidence about N-' s business activities in the 
record indicates that the Petitioner founded this company in 201 7, holds a 99% ownership share 
position therein, and "is the highest decision-maker in the organization." The record reflects that N­
is the management company for (N-Fund) and earned over $26 million in revenue in 2022. N-has 
made investments in over 60 startup companies since its inception, in some cases securing follow-on 
financing from investment institutions, such as S-, T-, and A-. The Petitioner has also provided 
evidence that N-has garnered industry awards for excellence within the capital investment field as 
reported by various media outlets in the Petitioner's home country, which suggests it enjoys a 
distinguished reputation there. 
For the foregoing reasons, we agree with the Petitioner that, more likely than not, she meets the plain 
language requirements for this criterion through performing leading or critical roles for entities that 
possess distinguished reputations, and the Director erred in concluding otherwise. We withdraw this 
aspect ofthe Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. 
Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(iv), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of the evidence of record. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for the handful of individuals at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated 
by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 
see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence, evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9978901 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film director and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed 
her subsequent appeal, concluding that she had not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
one-time achievement or documented that she meets at least three of the ten criteria.' 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. On motion, the Petitioner submits additional 
evidence, asserts that she meets four of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet three, 
and that she has established her eligibility for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
A. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 2 
1 See In Re: 4699024,(AAODec . 20,2019). 
2 As the Petitionernotes onmotion , the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l)(iii)(C) specifies the motion filing requirements , 
providing that a petitioner must submit "a statement about whetherornot thevalidityoftheunfavorable decision has been 
or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding. " The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that "[a] motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be 
dismissed." We note that the record lacks such a statement. 
B. Extraordinary Ability 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, aiis, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly aiiicles ). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our decision, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied one of the initial evidentiary criterion 
related to scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), of which she must meet three, and 
accordingly dismissed her appeal. On motion, the Petitioner reasserts her eligibility for the 
classification sought and presents new documentation related to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (viii). As we note above, a motion to reopen is based upon documentary 
evidence of new facts. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). For the following reasons, the evidence submitted 
by the Petitioner on motion does not establish her eligibility for the classification sought. Accordingly 
we will dismiss her motion to reopen. 
2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt o_flesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
for this criterion through her recei t of awards for the 
the movies The Petitioner initiall asserted eli ibili 
television program 
andl lher receipt of the medal, and a .--~~--~---.------I national award from th-,__ ______ _,for the film.__ ____ _. and its "contribution for the 
liberation of Ukraine at the time of anti-people power." On motion, she also addresses the film 
.__~-~---~~---~~-__, to assert that she meets this criterion. 
With respect to.__ ______ __,we acknowledged in our decision that the program received the 
.__ __ __.I award and concluded that the record showed this award to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in filmmaking. However, we determined that the Petitioner had not shown 
herself to be a reci ientofthis award. We noted that"screenshots froml I attribute the film 
award to 'while an initial letter from.__ ______ _, director o~ I 
'i=========....--~-- stated, 'c=J received this prestigious national award for the project 
2006 .... "' We therefore concluded that "the record indicates that an entity, as 
.__ __ d-to-tl-1e-P-et-it_,ioner, received the award," and identified this entity as eithd lor 
n motion, the Petitioner provides no additional evidence resolving the issue of whether=] 
or~received the award. A petitioner must resolve inconsistencies of record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Mattera_/ Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 
(BIA 1988). Without additional evidence resolving this inconsistency she has not overcome our 
concerns on motion. 
Instead, on motion she reasserts that she received the I I award and submits unsourced 
photographs. The first photograph is of the award only and does not contain a caption. The second 
hoto a h is of the Petitioner holdin this award and bears the ca tion, 
.__ ____ __.' and states that [The Petitioner] was the director of the TV version of this program on 
the TV channel 1 ~ "4 HoweverJ !asserts in his supplemental letter that"[ o ]wning 
[sic] to [the Petitioner]'s critical role" in this productionOand [the Petitioner] were awarded the I I Award I t' As we noted in our original decision, the screen shot from the 
website of the I t award credits onl~ las an award recipient. The documentation 
submitted on motion is therefore inconsistent with the evidence initially presented by the Petitioner to 
establish that she meets this criterion. As we note above, the Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies 
in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
at 591-92. Withoutevidenceresolvingwhethershe,I lc=J or both she and0received 
this award, the Petitioner has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
In our decision, we found that the Petitioner had not established that the films D andl I received awards; accordingly we could not determ.__i_n_e_i_f_s_h_e_a_l_s_o_w_a_s_a_, 
recipient of these films' awards. On motion, the Petitioner offered new evidence demonstrating that I leceived the....._ ______ __,at the 2015~------~Film Festival 
3 This a ward is referred to as ,j I' '.......__.......-;,:,:L~ 
4 We note that the evidence on motion indicates that ......,,.====-~--', in""'the record. 
.__ ___ _.t' is the TV channel on which this program 
appeared. 
3 
.....,_----;::::='!2.l,_:th::.::a:..:t~I ===::!r:..::e.:..ce:..:i:...:..v.:..ed:::.t.::h:.:e1- ___ .J:.....::;Best Film Award at thJ l Festival of Film, and 
tha received the International Fih~ I award 
for1=[=======~==r-a-t-th-e-.------r- __ T_h_e_P_e~titioner then reasserts that she received the award for the 
fih-J !because she was its creative roducer that she received the award fore=] as 
its creative producer, and the award fo as its executive 
producer "(together with~----~---- " 
However, the evidence submitted on motion does not support the Petitioner's contention that she 
served as a producer of these films. Re ardin I O I on motion, the Petitioner provides a 
letter of recommendation from a film director, the film's IMDb entry, and a printout 
from Festival Scope about the film. ~-.,.....,....----,-=-- states that the Petitioner was the creative producer 
forl I However, she is not identified as such either in the film's IMDb entry or on its 
entry on Festival Scope. Elsewhere in the record, a photocopy of the film's poster identifies the 
producer only asl I and does not list the Petitioner as a co-producer. With respect to I I.the Petitioner also provides a document from Festival Scope and its IMDb entry. The former 
attributes I k production to I I and I I and the latter provides no 
information on the film's producers and makes no reference to the Petitioner. For! l the 
Petitioner submits printouts from the film's distribution company and announcements of its film 
screenings at thtj IFilm Festival and thel IFilm Festival. These 
documents do not identify the Petitioner as affiliated with the film; all three identify the film's director 
by name, and no one else. By the preponderance of the evidence, the documentation submitted on 
motion does not support the Petitioner's assertion that she produced these films, and by extension, her 
claim that she satisfies this criterion. 
In our deci~iou we also acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of an award from thel I 
for the filrni : I and the resulting "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine at the time of 
anti-people power," but found that she had not established that it was nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field, as required at 8 C.F.R. §. 204.5(h)(3){i). On motion, the 
Petitioner resubmits a co~v of this award, the award's translation, a letter fron{ I Ph.D., 
program head of thel __ I University School of Film and Photography, and the 
aforementioned letter fro I 
.___ _ ____.I speculates that this award "may well be for her efforts to promote a greater understanding of 
her country through film," and that it was the quality of her films that "promoted a freedom message." 
Apart from this statement, he does not explain how an award granted for contributing to Ukraine's 
liberation equates to an award given for excellence in film direction. Further,! I does not discuss 
whether the award was nationally or internationally recognized for such excellence. In his letterO I I does assert that the award was given to the Petitioner in "national recognition" of the film, 
but the record lacks evidence, such as media reports or other relevant materials, demonstrating this 
national recognition or showing how this demonstrates the significance of the award in the field of 
filmmaking. 5 For these reasons, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion does not establish 
5 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting relevant considerations in determining if the 
a ward or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international significance in the field.) 
4 
by the preponderance of the evidence that this award is nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in her field. Accordingly it is not sufficient to demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
We also determined in our decision that the Petitioner's receipt of an award from th~._ ______ _. 
did not satisfy this criterion. On motion, she contests our finding, 
~p_ro_v_i_d-in_g_a_p_h-ot_o_gr-ap_h_o_f-th_e_a_w__.ard, its translation, and the aforementioned letter froml I The 
photograph includes an unsourced caption stating "[i]n May of 2006, [the Petitioner] shot 
I } after which she received ... the I I medal for 
high quality footage." The Petition;r does not provide evidence or documentation from ihec=lO 
officials, or others, corroborating this statement. 
~ __ _.I opines that "[t]he innovations she brought to the program were so significant that theD 
felt it was worthy of a special award" and concludes "rf1his unrual honor SU~ that it was the high 
quality of her filmmaking that led to this award." Here states that the L_J awarded this medal 
because the institution felt the Petitioner's innovations were significant but does not explain how the c::J reached this conclusion. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. 
The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The Petitioner does 
not provide evidence corroboratina ~ assertion that thec=]awards the medal for excellence 
in filmmaking. Fmiher, the record lacks evidence demonstrating that the medal is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field, such as documentation establishing its significance of the award 
in that field. 6 Absent this evidence, the Petitioner does not demonstrate on motion that her receipt of 
this award satisfies this criterion. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated on motion that she meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed as her ori inal contribution a used to 
create the visual effect ~------------------------------' which she alleged was copied in other productions. We concluded that the record did not establish 
that she made an original contribution and that it was of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 7 
On motion, the Petitioner reasserts her claim that her film making technique meets this criterion, 
submitting evidence related to her work on a DVD of a concert performed by the Ukrainian musical 
group 1 t Additionally, she asserts that a course on animation-directing that she taught 
at the! I, and a book she authored) I I I constitute original contributions of major 
significance in her field. 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
7 Id. (providing an example that although work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficientto establish that the w01k 
is of major significance). 
5 
Regarding the I I concert DVD, the Petitioner provides screenshots of the DVD's 
credits, establishing her involvement in its production and a letter of recommendation froml I I l a Russian songwriter and musician. I lindicates that he worked with the Petitioner 
on other projects, but not with her directly on the 1 I production. However, he claims 
that the "unique technical solution" employed by the Petitioner during this project are original artistic 
contributions of major significance as "after the released [sic] of the DVD-disk, this technical solution 
was used not only by I I' but also by several other bands and directors. I I 
also asserts that "[the Petitioner]'s previous achievements as a director" constitute an original 
contribution of major significance in the field of filmmaking. Letters that specifically articulate how 
the noncitizen' s contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent w01k 
add value. Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may fonn the basis for meeting this criterion. 8c=] I ts correspondence does not contain specific examples of how other bands and directors have 
used her work, or how her previous achievements as a director have remarkably impacted the field of 
film direction. Further, Petitioner does not provide evidence corroboratin~ • l's assertions, 
such as letters from television or movie directors or other relevant materials. In the absence of such 
documentation, his letter is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner also claims that the course on animation direction that she developed and 
tau~t atl I constitutes an original contribution of major significance. She provides a statement 
fro I and a letter of recommendation from] I' a Russian director and producer, in 
support of her argument. The proffered statement frod~--~ confirms that from December 2014 
until July 2015, the Petitioner authored and taught this course "on the basis of her vast personal 
experience as a practitioner-animator." I I notes that course's "uniqueness ... lies in the fact 
that only after [the Petitioner] agreed to teach the course ... was I I able to recruit a group of 
film and television directors" to attend the course. 9 N eitherl I's correspondence nor the I I document contain specific examples, and the record lacks other evidence, demonstrating how 
her development and instruction of the course has remarkably impacted the field of film direction and 
production in a manner indicative of major significance. Accordingly, the Petitioner's evidence is 
insufficient to show that this course satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner newlr asserts on motion that her boo 
~-------~}"can be considered as a scientific contribution in the field of endeavor." She 
resubmits an article titled~----------------------~----~ I , ~ photocopies of the book's front and back covers and binding, and the first page of its first 
chapter, along with its translation. 10 She submits a solicited letter of recommendation frorrJ 
I I a ioumalist and nroducer. I ~rst describes the book as examinin2:I 
I 
8 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
~ttps-//www 11scis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9ls statement is inconsistent with thel I document, which identifies class attendees as "students of the ~----------~' A petitionermustresolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointina to urberelthe truth lies. Ho, 19 T&N Dec. at 591-92. Here the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
resolvingwhethd~. --~~tudentsorfilmandtelevisiondirectorsattendedhercourse. 
10 We previously reviewed this evidence and determined it established that she met the scholarly articles crite1ion but did 
not address it in the context of original contlibutions. 
6 
~-----~-----____,.,.....' I l"is positive that [the Petitioner J's analysis facilitates 
creative development of post-Soviet audience via better understanding of its cultural heritage" and 
concludes that this book "is paramount for further research in the field of filmmaking." As a result of 
this analysisj I asserts that the Petitioner's book "clearly constitutes an original contribution 
of major significance to the field of filmmaking" (emphasis in original). However, as we note 
above, letters that specifically articulate how the non citizen's contributions are of major significance 
to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.11 
I I does not provide specific examples demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has facilitated 
the development of its target audience or showing its impact on research in the field of filmmaking, 
and the record lacks evidence corroborating his claims. Without additional evidence demonstrating 
that this book has widely impacted or received widespread recognition in the field of film direction 
and production in a manner reflecting major significance, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion through her authorship of this text. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In our dismissal, we found the Petitioner did not establish her leading role forD and she does not 
contest this on motion. We also found that the Petitioner had not established that she served in a 
critical role for this entity. On motion, she reasserts that she has nerformed in a critical role and 
submits the aforementioned statements froml I andl I Both statements discuss 
the Petitioner's production of I I' and~---------~ for 
Euromedia, one o-c==Js customers. I I explains that "her critical role was paramount 
toc=J[sic] success and reputation and to Ukraine" as it "helped thousands of students ... choose the 
best educational institution for their needs." He continues, "[c]lear evidence of [the Petitioner J's 
critical role in our company is her leadership in our most complex a [sic] prestigious projects, all of 
which resulted in the highest ratings of our broadcasts." (emphasis in original.) HoweverD 
I I does not offer specific examples showing how the Petitioner's work fore=] directly 
resulted in these increased ratings. Fmiher, the Petitioner does not submit corroborative evidence of 
his claims, such as ratings for these programs, or other appropriate documentation . 
.__ ___ _.I similarly asserts that the Petitioner served in a critical role for~as, when the Petitioner 
started "international projects '------------~ and.__ __________ ____. the 
ratings of the TV channels where they were broadcasted in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan went through 
the roof!" Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the noncitizen's 
leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specificall addresses how the noncitizen's role for the organization or establishment 
was leading or critical. 12 L---~_.--,tter does not indicate how he arrived at his personal knowledge 
of the Petitioner's critical role for or contain detailed information establishing that her direction 
of these programs resulted in increased television ratings. Moreover, the record does not establish that I lwas employed byOor had employed the Petitioner. 13 His letter therefore is not sufficient 
11 See 6 USCIS PolicyManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
12 Id. 
13 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l ); see also 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -
7 
to demonstrate that the Petitioner performed in a critical role fore=] Additionally, the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence establishing c=]s distinguished reputation. She therefore has not 
demonstrated that her role witiQ satisfies this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner newly asserts that she served in a critical role fo~ las she develo~ 
the previously discussed course a~ referencing both the previously discussed letter frornL_J I I, and the document fromc===J'14 In his letter) !explains that the Petitioner's 
course was critical tol las it "allowed I I to expand the student base," but does not 
provide specific examples showing how it did so. As we note above, letters from individuals with 
personal knowledge of the significance of the noncitizen's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative infonnation that specifically addresses how 
the non citizen's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 15 Here I I 
does not indicate how he has personal knowledge of the Petitioner's rol~at Further, his 
letter lacks detailed information demonstrating how her role was critical to d the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence con-oboratinghis assertion that her course increase 's student base. 
Therefore I Is letter is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
In addition, the record lacks evidence establishin~ [' s distinguished reputation.16 Accordingly, 
this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner served in a critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner does not submit documentary evidence sufficient to 
overcome our original finding that she did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Therefore, she has not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrated 
eligibility for this classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
First Step ofReviewingEvidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting that evidence 
of experience "shall" consistofletters from employers.) 
14 As discussed above, the record is sufficient to establish that thePetitionertaught this course. 
15 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting that evidence of experience "shall" consist of 
letters from employers.) 
16 Id., (noting that theorganizationorestablishmentmust be recognized as having a distingnished reputation.) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20828278 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
documenting his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting 
at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a competitive athlete and coach in Brazilian jiu-jitsu and has 
successfully competed in in the I I category at regional, national, and international jiu-jitsu 
competitions. Because the Petitioner does not claim, and the record does not establish, that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he 
must satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner 
initially claimed that he could meet five of these criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require international achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the five claimed 
criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
meets these two criteria based on his receipt of medals at IBJJF World I Jiu-Jitsu Championship 
and Brazilian National Championship events and based on his documented participation as a referee 
for jiu-jitsu competitions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria based on his membership in 
an association that requires outstanding achievements of its members and based on his performance 
in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner does 
not pursue his initial claim that he meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that meets this 
2 
criterion. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not further address it in this decision. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the.field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the International 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) as a certified black belt. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that he is a member of an association in his field, and that membership in the association 
is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his black belt certificate issued by I 
ofl I Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Team in January 2019. The initial evidence also included an 
excerpt from the IBJJF publication titled General System of Graduation. Article 5.1 of this publication 
lists the "IBJJF Basic Requirements to Obtain the Black Belt Certificate and Degrees," which states 
that an applicant for an IBJJF black belt certificate or degree: 
• Must be affiliated to IBJJF in the current year 
• Can not be an athlete with provisional graduation 
• Must provide First Aid or CPR course certificate 
• Must attend an IBJJF Referee Course within a 12-month period before the date of the 
request 
• Must be a professor or assistant professor at an academy affiliated with IBJJF or an 
athlete practicing jiu-jitsu in an IBJJF-registered academy who was graduated by a 
professor who is a black belt with at least 2 degrees certified by IBJJF. 
Article 4.1.3 of this IBJJF publication further address the degree system for athletes who have achieved 
a black belt ranking. It states that "promotion to a new degree in the black belt is only valid starting 
from the issuance of an IBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic requirements present in 
Article 5." 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included articles identifying IBJFF as "one of the most prestigious 
and recognized jiu-jitsu competition organizations" and "the most important and dominant federation 
in [the] sport." The Petitioner also submitted two academic papers (a journal article and a master's 
thesis) whose authors state that the Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt is recognized as one of the most 
difficult black belts to achieve in martial arts, often requiring a decade or more of dedicated training. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
3 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director observed that the black belt certificate alone was 
insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies all elements of this criterion, and emphasized 
that, although the Petitioner submitted information regarding IBJJF's belt graduation system, he did 
not provide evidence of his IBJJF membership. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the Petitioner's member page on IBJJF 
showing that he is a certified black belt member. The Petitioner also re-submitted excerpts from the 
IBJJF General System of Graduation publication. In a supporting letter, the Petitioner emphasized 
that a certified black belt represents a high level of membership in IBJJF and that the information 
contained in the IBJJF publication is sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that 
the achievement of membership in IBJJF with a black belt certification requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
The Director acknowledged the requirements for black belt certification set forth at Article 5.1 of the 
IBJJF General System of Graduation but determined that those requirements do not discuss in detail 
what is required to become a member of the association and therefore do not show that membership 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly weigh the submitted evidence. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that "[regular] membership in IBJJF is something that can be applied for 
through their website and does not require extraordinary ability. It is the obtaining of the rank of black 
belt through the IBJJF is what requires extraordinary ability." The Petitioner also submits new 
evidence on appeal, including: his IBJJF Black Belt Certificate issued on I I 2021; additional 
excerpts from the IBJJF's General System of Graduation; and a chart that summarizes the IBJJF 
graduation system. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this requirement 
based on his IBJJF membership as a certified black belt. As a preliminary matter, we note that the 
evidence submitted on appeal indicates that the IBJJF recognized the Petitioner's completion of all 
requirements for his certified black belt in 2021, more than one year after he filed this petition. 
While the Petitioner previously submitted his black belt certificate issued in 2019 by the academy 
where he trains in Brazil, the record does not establish that this certificate was registered with or 
recognized by IBJJF at the time or that it automatically resulted in his membership as an IBJJF­
certified black belt. 
The IBJJF's General Systems of Graduation indicates that the federation distinguishes between 
academy-issued black belt graduation certificates and IBJJF-issued black belt diplomas. For example, 
Article 4.1.3 states that "every promotion to a new degree in the black belt is only valid starting from 
the issuance of an IBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic requirements present in Article 
5." Therefore, there is insufficient evidence that the Petitioner had an IBJJF-certified black belt 
membership as of the date of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 
Further, the stated "Basic Requirements" to obtain an IBJJF black belt certificate include submission of 
an application as well as evidence of "affiliation to IBJJF," completion of a first aid or CPR course, 
attendance at an IBJJF Referee course, and evidence of practicing or teaching jiu-jitsu at an IBJJF­
affiliated academy for a specific period. Based on these stated requirements, receipt of initial 
membership as a black belt-certified member ofIBJJF does not involve a process by which one must be 
judged as having outstanding achievements by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner highlights Article 5.2.1 of the IBJJF General System of Graduation, which states that 
"the Black belt certification graduation for each new degree is an individual process that depends on 
a through analysis by the IBJJF including examination of documents .... " However, there is no 
evidence that the Petitioner has been granted any certificate from the IBJJF beyond the initial black 
belt certificate or that his membership has been reviewed according to these requirements, which 
appear to be applicable only to additional black belt degrees. 2 Further, it is unclear what is entailed 
by the IBJJF's "thorough analysis" of documents or what criteria are considered in such review, such 
that we could conclude that additional degrees require outstanding achievements. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that acquiring the advanced knowledge and skills necessary 
for black belt certification in jiu-jitsu is a demanding process that requires years of training and 
dedication, and that earning a black belt represents a significant achievement for practitioners of the 
sport. However, for the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the 
Petitioner has a membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C .F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has performed in a leading or 
critical role for an or anization with a distin uished reputation and referenced letters from 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Academy in Brazil), 
(owner of in Utah), andl (a Utah-
based Judo coach and special education teacher). 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states the Director's determination was "in error" but he does not further 
address how the previously submitted evidence satisfies all elements of this criterion or identify any 
specific errors in the Director's analysis of this criterion. Rather, he appears to suggest that the 
Director overlooked evidence that he served in a leading or critical role for a Brazilian 
2 Based on the IBJJF Degree System described at A1iicle 4.1.3 of the General System of Graduation, "the first degree can 
only be requested after a minimum of three (3) years of the black belt graduation" and "every promotion to a new degree 
in the black belt is only valid starting from the issuance of an TBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic 
requirements present in Article 5." Because the Petitioner's TBJJF black belt diploma was issued in 2021, the record 
reflects that he would not become eligible to apply for a first-degree black belt certification from TBJJF until 2024. 
3 The record reflects that the letters from and I lwere submitted as evidence that the Petitioner intends 
to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his work will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States, as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. While it appears that business employed the 
Petitioner as a jiu-jitsu coach and instructor at the time of the RFE response, the Petitioner did not claim to meet the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his employment with I I 
5 
jiu-jitsu academy in lutah. We observe that the record contains two letters from 
owner of I both of which were submitted to establish 
that the Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his service as a 
referee for tournaments hosted by I 
Specifically, the Petitioner states, "[w]e understand that it may not have been initially presented as 
clearly as possible the role that [the Petitioner] plays atl land how it would be considered 
leading or critical." The Petitioner indicates that he is submitting "an updated letter from I 
more carefully outlining [his] role in their organization"; however, the submission on appeal does not 
include an additional letter from this organization or any other new evidence related tol I 
The Petitioner has re-submitted a letter froml I dated February 26, 2020, which was 
initially provided at the time of filing. 
The previously submitted letters froml lconfirm that the Petitioner served as a referee for 
three one-day tournaments hosted by this academy between I I 2018 and I 2020 and 
emphasize that referees are volunteers and not employees of the company. I states that 
his academy has a regional reputation for hosting highly competitive jiu-jitsu tournaments. The 
Petitioner maintains that, as a referee, he "plays a critical role in the success of the competitions that 
I I a distinguished organization, hosts on a regular basis." 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 4 Here the statements provided by I do not provide detailed and 
probative information addressing how the Petitioner's role as a volunteer jiu-jitsu referee for three 
one-day tournaments has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
I !activities. Without information and evidence documenting the impact and importance 
of any work the Petitioner has conducted forl l the record does not demonstrate the critical 
nature of his role for this organization. Further, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating 
that I I enjoys a distinguished reputation, as the evidence is limited to letters from the 
organization and photographs from matches refereed by the Petitioner. 
The record reflects that, prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner claimed that he met this 
criterion based on his role as a coach, instructor and competitor with 
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Academy inl I Brazil. As noted, the Petitioner has not specifically 
contested the Director's determination this he does not meet this criterion based on his role with this 
organization. Nevertheless, we observe that the record does not contain sufficient evidence to establish 
that this academy has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner emphasized the "excellence" of the 
academy's results in competition, but the supporting evidence was limited to articles from unidentified 
newspapers reporting on the results of the team's athletes. This media coverage appears to be local in 
nature and this evidence alone is insufficient to establish that the organization or establishment is 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20612235 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a performer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner had established that he met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
meeting the requisite three evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record did not 
establish that he had the necessary level of acclaim and expertise to qualify as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten crite1ia 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed in the United States as a erformer for the I I He was a member of the Russian national team for man ears and earned a 
silver team medal in the 2009 I I Championships on the The record 
includes contracts for his continued employment as a performer with 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the requirements of the following 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3): 
• (i) 
• (iv) 
• (vii) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field 
Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
Display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
Upon review of the evidence, we agree with the Director that the record establishes that the Petitioner 
meets these three evidentiary criteria, and therefore has met the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination that his team silver medal in I I I at the 2009 Championships does not qualify as a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally-recognized award), as well as his conclusion regarding five of the ten 
evidentiary criteria. However, once a petitioner shows, through either evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria, that they met the initial evidence 
requirement, we move on to consider the totality of the evidence in the second partofthe adjudication, 
the final merits determination. We will therefore not consider the Petitioner's arguments on appeal as 
2 
they relate to these criteria, but will instead review them m the context of the final merits 
determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits detennination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard as an artistic performer. 
We first note that while much of the evidence relates to the Petitioner's career as an athlete, he intends 
to continue to be employed as a performer in the United States. Guidance from the USCJS Policy 
Manualrelates to this point: 
Some of the most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the 
beneficiary's intent is to come to the United States and be employed as an athletic coach 
or manager. Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in 
general are not in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes 
have gone on to be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise.1 
Although the above refers only to the situation in which an athlete has transitioned to a coaching 
career, the record indicates that while a perforn1er relies on different sets of skills than a gymnast, 
many extraordinary gymnasts have gone on to careers as performers with I 2 We will 
therefore apply the same analysis in the Petitioner's case. 
The record shows that as an athlete, the Petitioner was a member of the Russian national! I 
team I from 2003 to 2016, although in severalofthoseyearshewasamember 
of the junior team or the reserve team. His membership is confirmed by a letter from the head coach 
of the team, as well as copies of the team rosters for each of those years. This evidence also 
demonstrates that admission to the national I team is highly competitive and is achieved by 
advancing through three rounds of competition and a final selection process, and that the Russian team 
enjoyed success while the Petitioner was a member. 
1 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2( A)(2) httns·//www uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6.-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Several articles indicate that lperfmmers aref01merathletes, including some who have competed 
in andmedaledatthe Olympics. 
3 
In addition, during his membership on the Russian national team, the evidence shows that the 
Petitioner successfully competed in continental and top-level international competitions, most notably 
between 2008 and 2010. Although he competed in several I events as a member of the team, 
he won medals in international competition only on I which is not included 
in Olympid I competitions. Specifically, he received his most prestigious award at the 2009 I Championships as a member of the team awarded a silver medal, but also received individual 
and team medals in the I Championships in 2008 and 2010. While he continued to 
successfully compete in national competitions from 2011 to 2013, he did not medal again in a major 
international competition until 2014, when he was a member ofthd lteam that 
took the gold medal at the !championships. The record shows that while he continued to 
successfully compete in national and international competitions from 2014 to 2017, he did not 
participate in major competitions again in his career. 
The evidence summarized above is sufficient to establish that the Petitioner achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim from 2008 through 2014 as an athlete, and was one of the few at the 
top of his field for at least a portion of that period. He then began his career as a performer in 2017, 
approximately three years before filing the instant petition, which shows the recency of this acclaim 
as an athlete per the USCIS Policy Manual. As he now intends to continue working in the U.S. as a 
perfom1er, we must evaluate whether he has sustained his acclaim in that field. Upon review of the 
record, we conclude that he has not done so. 
In support of his acclaim as a erformer with I the Petitioner relies on two sets of 
evidence: his role in the show and his salary. Regarding the former, he submitted a letter 
regarding his role inl I from ____ Senior A1iistic Director atl While 
he describes the role played by the Petitioner as a leadin one, he does not ex lain this statement other 
than to complement his acrobatic skills on the Further while 
stating that the Petitioner's work contributes to the artistic and commercial successo I I does not indicate that the Petitioner's addition to the show had a direc impact on that 
success. 
Another letter from I employee was submitted byl Senior Advisor 
in the talent department. He confirms that the Petitioner was recruited to las part of a revamp 
of the show in 2018, specifically for th and also states that his abilities 
as a I allowed for the inclusion of new tricks. als........ states that the Petitioner 
plays a variety of roles in the show, including the act an UoJ..L. which he states is 
a leading character in the show. However, we note that neither _____ own press release, 
or any of the reviews ofl I included in the record, mention the Petitioner or the I I role. 3 
While all of this evidence shows that the Petitioner is one of many talented performers making up the 
cast of the show, it does not indicate that he is singled out as a star performerforthe show orforl I I I or has otherwise received sustained national or international acclaim based on this role. 
Regarding his salary, the Petitioner submitted evidence that in 2020 and 2021 he was compensated at 
the rate of $154 .00 per show. However, he then presented two different calculations ofhis hourly rate. 
3 One article from the website www.danceinforma.com dated August 8, 2011 includes a photo captioned I but this photo shows three characters, and the article makes nofurthermentionot1._ _______ 
4 
He initially stated that from the time he is required to report to work each night through the end of 1he 
second show is five and one-half hours, making his wages $56 per hour. However, on appeal he states 
that since each show lasts 90 minutes, his hourly wage should be considered to be $108.00 per hour. 
Since he initially indicated that his employer requires him to be on duty for two and one-half hours 
before the shows begin, we will consider the lower figure as representative of his actual wages. 
For purposes of comparison, the Petitioner previously submitted evidence showing the mean hourly 
wage for the occupation "Miscellaneous Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers" 
from the website of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which in the I I area was $49 .84 
per hour. On appeal, he submits additional evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor's ONet 
website which shows that in 2021, the highest 10% of workers in this occupation earned in excess of 
$100.00 per hour. We note that while the Petitioner's hourly age of $56 per hour is above the mean 
wage, it is well below that of top earners, and therefore does not reflect acclaim. 
In addition, even if we were to consider the higher hourly wage that the Petitioner claims on appeal, 
which would place him among the top 10% earners in this occupational grouping, the SOC code 2 7-
2090 assigned to this occupation group is a catch-all which includes a wide variety of occupations not 
included under other, more specific SOC codes such as those for actors, athletes and dancers. This 
can be seen in the BLS's listing of industries which have the highest levels of employment in this 
occupation group, which includes motion picture and video; independent artists, writers and 
performers; drinking places; and performing arts companies. The data presented therefore does not 
provide a sufficient or accurate basis for the comparison of the Petitioner's wages to those of other 
artistic or circus performers. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner's employer "is the number one _______ 
company in the world," employing 1300 performers like him. 4 Butthe record lacks evidence showing 
that his earnings place him amongst the small percentage of I performers at the top of 
the field.I I writes that the Petitioner earns "annual remuneration of$ 72,996," a figure 
based upon the Petitioner's performance in all 4 7 4 scheduled shows ofl I and that this is 
"substantially above the in dust av era e for a trampolinist." Butthe record does not include evidence 
to support this statement and does not indicate how the Petitioner's earnings compare 
to that of othe _____ performers. Also, the record contains a 2016 article posted on the 
CNBC website which includes a quote from a circus industry expert that "An award-winning artist. .. 
might earn in the low six-figures with benefits." After consideration of all of the evidence relating to 
the Petitioner's earnings, we find that it does not show that they place him amongst the very few at 1he 
top of his field, or otherwise indicate that he has enjoyed national or international acclaim as an artistic 
performer. 
The record shows that the Petitioner was a world-class I athlete with sustained international 
acclaim, and competed successfully at the international level relatively recently. However, because 
he intends to continue working in the United States as an artistic performer, he must show that he has 
continued that level of acclaim in this related field. As explained above, although he is a talented 
performer and an impmiant part of I show, the record lacks extensive 
4 From the article from the website www.mentalfloss.com datedc=] 
2019. 
5 
documentation showing that this work has garnered him acclaim at the national or international level, 
or that he is one of the few artistic performers among the small percentage at the top of that field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21983129 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 14, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner appealed that decision, and we withdrew that decision and remanded the matter to the 
Director in February 2021, stating that the Director had not sufficiently considered some elements of 
the Petitioner's claims. The Director denied the petition for the second time in December 2021, stating 
that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the threshold criteria, instead of the required three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily applyto the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student to study for a master of fine arts 
degree in animation atl I College of Art and Design. After completing that degree, he changed 
to H-1B nonimmigrant status in 2015 to work as creative manager for his design company. In 2022, he 
changed hisnonimmigrant status to H-4, dependent of anH-1 nonimmigrant. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner also claimed to have submitted comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
In the second denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining 
to display and high remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria 
relating to prizes and leading or critical roles. He does not dispute the Director's determinations 
regarding memberships, commercial success, and comparable evidence. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
waived appeal regarding those issues. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the two criteria 
relating to display and remuneration. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We note that the Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. His response to a request 
for evidence (RFE) mentioned his involvement in an award-winning project. At that point, the Director 
issued a second RFE which was largely limited to the question of whether the Petitioner himself had 
received the award. 
The Petitioner claims two awards under this criterion: 
• Finalist, I . IAwardsJ I category 
• 2018 Silver Award for Craft-Cinematography from 
In our February 2021 remand order, we took no position as to whether either claimed award meets 1he 
requirements of the regulatory criterion. Instead, we determined that the Director had applied incorrect 
standards, and instructed the Director to "reevaluate this evidence to determine whether the Petitioner 
was a recipient of an award, as well as whether any awards he received were for excellence in the field of 
computer graphics, visual effects and animation." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met 
these requirements. We agree, for the reasons explained below. 
The Petitioner acknowledges that he worked on a projectthat was a finalist for a I Award, but which 
did not win that award. The Petitioner asse1ts that "being a finalist for [a] prestigious award ought to be 
considered under 8 CPR§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)." The language of the regulation, however, requires "receipt of 
... prizes or awards." The Petitioner cites no support for the contention that finalists who did not actually 
receive an award should, nevertheless, be considered to have this requirement. A nomination that did not 
result in receipt of a prize or award does not satisfy the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 2 
Fmihem1ore, the Petitioner had previously acknowledged that the adve1iising campaign in question did 
not become a finalist for a I until after the petition's filing date. A petitioner must meet all eligibility 
requirements at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). The award nomination had not yet occurred at 
the time of filing, and therefore it cannot contribute to a finding that the Petitioner was eligible when he 
filed the petition. 3 
Regarding the Award from printouts from the awarding entity's 
website show that the named recipient was the marketing and adve1iising agency that produced a short 
promotional film on behalf of the Canadian Olympic Committee. As the regulation is worded, the focus 
should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of 
the awards orprizes. 6 USCISPolicy ManualF.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The web page about that specific award lists dozens of credits for individuals and agencies that 
participated in making the film. The Petitioner correctly asse1is that an individual might win an award as 
2 If the proceeding had reached a final merits determination, then we would have taken nominations into consideration, 
because nominations are a form ofrecognition even if they do not rise to the level of prizes or a wards. But because we 
have not rendered a final merits detenninationin this case, we neednot explore this issue in depth. 
3 If the Petitioner had established eligibility as of the time offiling, then we would have consideredlaterevidence in the 
context of whether he remained eligible while the petition was pending, which 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) also requires. 
3 
part of a team, and need not be the only named recipient. Nevertheless, the page does not indicate that 
all the credited individuals and agencies individually received awards; the list of credits on the website is 
not, itself, an award. Participation in an award-winning endeavor is not the same thing as receipt of an 
award. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established his receipt of the award. 
Fmihermore, the prize or award must be for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. The web 
printout credits the Petitioner as the project's "CG [computer graphics] Artist." The submitted 
information does not indicate that the award was for excellence in computer graphics. 
The Petitioner contends that the long list of credits shows that "the awards were collective efforts and all 
the contributors were recognized." But the award does not recognize the collective efforts of all the 
participants. Rather, the website printouts show that there are several different categories of award, such 
as "Craft" and "Design," each with several subcategories. The award given to the Petitioner's employer 
is in the "Craft" category, and the ''Cinematography" subcategory. The website indicates that the 
"Cinematography" subcategory "[r]ecogniz[es] the art and science of beautiful film composition­
framing, lighting, angles and movement." Thus, the award does not recognize the overall product of all 
the participants' cooperation; it specifically recognizes the cinematography. The Petitioner has not shown 
that his computer-generated artwork played a role in the selection of the winner. This information further 
weighs against the argument that the Petitioner himself actually received the award. 
There is no indication that all the individuals credited on the website were involved in the film's 
cinematography. Apart from the Petitioner as the "CG Artist," other credited participants include 
"Copywriters," "Music," "Sound Design/Final Mix," and "Account Supervisor." Such roles have no 
demonstrated relevance to cinematography, and many of these roles fall within other award categories 
and subcategories, such as "Animation," "Editing," and "Sound Design" within the "Craft" categmy, and 
"Graphics" in the "Design" category. 
Given the above information, the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to show that the Silver I Award for "Craft- Cinematography" is an award that he personally received for excellence 
in his field of endeavor, as required by the language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3)(i). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asserted that "[a]s Creative Director [for his design company], he has played critical and 
leading roles in a number of productions for client companies ... on high level media projects for major 
corporations such as II II I andl I The named 
brands did not directly engage the Petitioner's services. Rather, those companies had contracted with 
various advertising agencies to produce advertising and marketing content, and the agencies, in tum, 
subcontracted some design work to the Petitioner. 
4 
Individuals from these agencies provided letters, providing details about the Petitioner's digital modeling 
work on various projects. For example, "he was solely responsible formodelingtexturing, animating and 
lighting [a] 30 second video" for I I he provided digital modeling for a television and social 
media campaign forl I and he "model[ ed] the environments and characters" for al I I !promotion "while the other team was focused on animation." These letters indicate some degree 
of demand for the Petitioner's digital modeling services, but they do not establish that his contracted roles 
on these projects were leading or critical for any organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. 
The Director issued an RFE, stating that the submitted letters did not show how the Petitioner's roles were 
leading or critical for any "organization or establishment as a whole." 
In response, the Petitioner noted that the USCIS Policy Manual does not require an individual's role to be 
critical to entire organizations or establishments. Rather, it requires that an individual "has performed in 
a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization 
or establishment." The Petitioner asserted that he satisfied this requirement because he "has been 
responsible for critical campaigns and projects for distinguished media studios serving big name clientele 
for organizations in his field of endeavor." Individual campaigns and projects, however, are not divisions 
or departments of an organization or establishment. 
New letters submitted in response to the RFE provide more details about the Petitioner's modeling work 
on various projects, but these letters do not establish that how the Petitioner's work was critical to any 
organization or department or division thereof. 4 Assertions that his roles were critical to particular 
projects do not satisfy the criterion, because a project is not a department or division of an organization 
or establishment. The letters show that, on any given project, the Petitioner was part of a creative team 
that involved varying numbers of other artists and technicians performing assigned roles. The Petitioner 
has not established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments or 
divisions thereof. Participation in a successful project is not automatically or presumptively a critical role 
for the organization, or a department or division of the organization, that unde1iook the project. 
We need not discuss, at length, the related but separate question of whether the advertising agencies have 
a distinguished reputation. 5 We note, nevertheless, that the Petitioner submits no evidence to address this 
point, relying instead on the prominence of some of the agencies' clients. The Petitioner asserts that he 
"has usedhis extraordinary abilities to make a difference to animation projects of major US corporations." 
Those corporations hiredadve1iising and marketing agencies for specific promotions, and those agencies, 
in turn, hired the Petitioner as a subcontractor to work on one aspect of their campaigns. The Petitioner 
has not shown that his indirect connection to the "major US corporations"as a subcontractor to advertising 
agencies amounts to a critical role for those corporations or divisions or departments thereof. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with regard to the requirements of this criterion. 
4 We also note that many of the projects discussed in the RFE response took place after the petition's filing date, and 
therefore cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has had some success providing image modeling for 
promotional use by prominent clients, but he has not shown that the recognition of his work rises to 
the required level of sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2023 In Re: 28052420 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lecturer in the biochemistry field, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been employed since 2016 as a lecturer for the University I 
'----------.==!...I 1.:..:·n:......:.:th.:..:e~D=---.:.ei:.partment of Chemistry and Biochemistry. He received his Ph.D. in 
biochemistry froml IUniversity. He indicates his intention to continue his work in the 
same field in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet five of the criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), based 
on evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles in 
professional publications. The Director concluded that the record did not support the Petitioner's 
claims that he could meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of 
published material about the Petitioner in certain media; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
evidence of original contributions of major significance in the field; and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
which requires evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills three criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria 
and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on two articles posted on the website 
News.uncg.edu. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
2 I 
and author of the material. 1 The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that any of 
the media in which these articles appeared were one of the qualifying types under this criterion. 2 On 
appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that "both of those articles showed my contribution as a teacher and 
the impact I have made as a teacher." 
The first Newsc=}edu article (October 19, 2021), also published in thel ICampus Weekly 
newsletter, reflects published material about him relating to his work. The second NewsC=:]edu 
article relates to an alumna who appeared on the television series "The Voice," mentions the Petitioner 
as her favorite professor, and quotes his recollections ofher as a student in his organic chemistry class. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that NewsLJdu or thel !Campus Weekly newsletter 
represents a major medium. 1pecificjlly, the Petitioner offered an email from the web manager of 
university communications at who indicated the first Ne~du article '"received about 
27 views per day" in the four weeks after its publication, and thel__JCampus Weekly newsletter 
was emailed to "roughly 3,000" faculty and staff. However, the Petitioner did not show the 
significance ofthe Newse=::}du on !Campus Weekly newsletter circulation figures or explain 
how such data reflects status as a major medium. 3 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he or she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 4 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 The Director further found that the above-referenced published materials do not meet this criterion because they do not 
address '"the merits of the [Petitioner's] work" and his '"standing in the field." However, these considerations do not relate 
to whether the Petitioner has met the plain language of this criterion. As discussed above, if the Petitioner had satisfied at 
least three criteria, which he has not, then we would have analyzed those articles as part of the totality of the evidence in 
a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows his successes are sufficient to establish that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. Although we need not conduct such an analysis in this case, we briefly note 
that we do not find the record (including the evidence under this criterion) to be indicative of the sustained acclaim and 
recognition for achievements required for this highly restrictive classification. 
3 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 Id. (finding that although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that 
the work is of major significance). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his research "has provided a meaningful contribution to the 
common knowledge pool of the cysteine desulfurase community and iron enzyme community." 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters from his co-authors praising him for his contributions, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the 
letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, point to the 
citation of his work by others, and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do 
not demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. 
A letter from P-C-D-S-, the Petitioner's supervisor at I I University, discussed his 
dissertation work at that institution on reactions involving cysteine desulfurases and sulfur acceptors. 
Specifically, his research proposed that the kinetic behavior of those enzymes is dependent on the 
availability of downstream pathway components and reducing agents. In addition, his 2013 article 
I I describing reactions involving the I I system provided the first 
experimental evidence for this proposal and is relevant to the issue ofthe ability ofpathogenic bacteria 
to resist antibiotics. 
Further, P-C-D-S- explained that his 2019 article I Idemonstrated that the enzyme pair 
thioredoxin (Trx) and thioredoxin reductase participates in coupled kinetic schemes with enzymes 
involved in the synthesis ofFe-S clusters and thionucleosides. She claimed that his two articles "have 
been cited over 56 times and inspired subsequent mechanistic studies on cysteine desulfurases in other 
species." Moreover, P-C-D-S- stated that the Petitioner created a cloning library with 21 different 
plasmids that continue to aid experiments in her lab that are funded by the National Science 
Foundation, and "have advanced the understanding of the biosynthesis of Fe-S clusters in bacteria." 
Although she opined that the Petitioner's findings "shifted a paradigm" in his research field, she did 
not expand upon the impact or influence in the wider field. 
K-B-, the Petitioner's colleague at I I University and a co-author on his 2019 article 
.______ _.I, indicates that his research contributions "helped us establish the impact of the Trx 
system on Fe-S biogenesis" and "allowed us to propose a novel model for redox regulation and Fe-S 
metabolism in Gram-positive bacteria." However, K-B-did not elaborate and describe how this work 
has somehow affected the field in a significant manner. 
The above letters primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research 
studies without describing a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of 
biochemistry, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the 
specific field. 5 The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have 
been widely implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable 
impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits an excerpt ofhis publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But 
this evidence does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of biochemistry rises to 
the level of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has 
shown that his findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. We 
acknowledge, however, that evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "6 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights a research article he previously referenced that cited to his work. 
As discussed, the Petitioner has demonstrated that others have cited to his work in their journal papers; 
however, the mere citation ofwork by others does not automatically show "major significance." Here, 
the referenced article does not reflect the impact ofthe Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond 
the authors who cited to his work. The article, entitled I I 
, in which the authors~-----~----~------------------~ cite to his 2013~---~article, does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work 
from the other 32 cited papers, nor does the article credit his work for being majorly significant. 
The research article highlighted by the Petitioner references his work as evidence of recent research, 
and, while the article indicates that the authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well 
as the work of the other cited scientists, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views 
his published findings as original contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance," as required 
by this regulatory criterion. 
Considered together, the evidence, consisting of the reference letters from his fellow biochemists and 
excerpts ofcitations to his published findings and his citation statistics, establishes that the Petitioner's 
published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field of 
biochemistry. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an individual contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. It is not the title of a role, but rather 
the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 7 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish his critical role as a lecturer forl p~ On appeal, 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
7 Id. 
8 The Director further found that the submitted exhibits "provide no detail about how, exactly, you have influenced others 
in your field at least on a national scale by serving in the various roles described." However, these considerations do not 
5 
the Petitioner maintains that "my ability to teach multiple disciplines ofchemistry is vital to the success 
of our department," and references recommendation letters from four colleagues atl 19 
Specifically, in two letters, M-P-C-, head of the I IDepartment of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 
relates that the Petitioner's "experience and expertise in teaching lectures and labs in the areas of 
Chemistry and Biochemistry are clear evidence of his value to the academic community." Instead of 
describing how the Petitioner has significantly contributed to the outcomes and activities oftheI I 
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, M-P-C-offers a general job description and duties of the 
position. For instance, he provides that the Petitioner "has taught 13 lectures or labs since he started 
in the fall of 2016. These courses range from the most introductory course ... to the Biochemistry 
labs that are for upper-level undergraduate students or graduate students." 
His second letter further details the Petitioner's duties as a lecturer, including teaching lectures and 
labs in Biochemistry as well as other disciplines such as Organic Chemistry, General Chemistry and 
General Education Chemistry Lecture and Labs. He provides that "[h ]is expertise to teach multiple 
disciplines of Chemistry is critical for our course-scheduling team." M-P-C-did not provide specific 
information, explaining how the Petitioner has performed in a critical role. 10 He did not, for example, 
detail what contributions the Petitioner made in his role as a lecturer for the department and show how 
his role as a lecturer resulted in successes or achievements for the department signifying a crucial or 
essential role. 
Similarly, the letter from D-B-, a senior lecturer in the department, reflects the nature ofthe role rather 
than how the Petitioner has performed in a critical role for the department, as claimed. Specifically, 
D-B-states that the Petitioner "has taught 13 of the 33 courses (39%) the department offers to 
undergraduate students" and provides "it is vital to the department's mission to have someone who 
has the expertise to teach such diverse areas of chemistry."11 A letter from J-J-R-, an associate 
professor who was part of the hiring committee that recruited the Petitioner, states that he "is the only 
faculty member in our department who is actively involved in teaching such diverse group of topics 
in chemistry." A letter from K-S-P-, an associate professor in the department, provides that the 
Petitioner's "role in our department is extremely critical because he works with the three disciplines 
of Chemistry: Organic Chemistry, General Chemistry, and Biochemistry." Again, these letters do not 
indicate or explain what contributions the Petitioner made in teaching chemistry disciplines and how 
those contributions resulted in successful outcomes or activities for the department, or establish that 
he was responsible for the department's success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning 
of "critical role." 
relate to whether the Petitioner has met the plain language of this criterion. The level of recognition received by the 
Petitioner as a lecturer at I lwould be more relevant 
te to an examination of the totality of the evidence in a final merits 
determination, as discussed above. 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner also states, "I agree [] with adjutcating officer's conclusion that I have not provided enough 
evidence that my role was in a leadership position at ." 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
11 We note that in his letter D-B-indicates that as the department's most senior full-time lecturer he has "taught over 150 
sections of 12 different courses." 
6 
Finally, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the I IDepartment of Chemistry and 
Biochemistry qualifies as an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as 
required under this criterion. The record contains articles from the department's website providing 
information on its offered degrees and past department heads. These documents provide general 
information about the department but they are insufficient to establish that it has a distinguished ~on. The Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the 
L___JDepartment of Chemistry and Biochemistry , and how its reputation compares to similar 
departments, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished 
reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16494565 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a clinical chemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements 
for this classification . We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal of that decision, and dismissed a 
subsequent combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The matter is again before us on a 
second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. As such, the issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); specifically, those relating to her authorship of scholarly articles, and her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she 
also met two additional criteria relating to her membership in associations requiring outstanding 
achievements of their members, and her original contributions of major significance to her field. In 
dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director that she did not meet those two additional criteria. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which included new evidence 
in support of both criteria. In dismissing the Petitioner's combined motion, we acknowledged and 
addressed her newly submitted evidence, and articulated why such evidence and her accompanying 
assertions were insufficient to warrant reopening or reconsideration. 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In dismissing the prior motion, we noted that although the Petitioner asserted that her education and 
post-doctoral training qualify as outstanding achievements, she did not articulate how those facts 
showed that obtaining her degree and her post-doctoral training constituted outstanding achievements 
for purposes of meeting the membership criterion. We noted that while the doctoral ro ram at I I may be the only one accredited by .---------=-_._ _______ _ 
the fact that '----------------------' ....... --------------~ has chosen to attain an accreditation for its program tailored to.__ _____ ___. scientists does not 
prove that those who complete such a program have made an outstanding achievement. Similarly, 
although she asserted that the Rost-doctoral training she completed at thd.__ _________ ____. 
an~,__ ________ _.J is 1 of 35 accredited byl I we determined that she had not 
shown that the completion of that training is an achievement that stands out from those of her peers, 
despite the fact that such training may better qualify her to pursue a career as a clinical chemist than 
those who have not yet completed their education and training. 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates her claim that her Ph.D. in clinical and bioanalytical chemistry 
and her post-doctoral training in the same field qualif as outstandin achievements. She states that 
her comQletion of her post-doctoral training at the and 
I lsatisfies this criterion, again noting that the program a'-----------~ and.___~ I I is only one of35 accredited b~ I She farther points out that "this position 
is limited to one per year per hospital" and concludes that "at any time in a year, there will be 35 Post 
Doctorates under training." Additionally, she asserts that only two of the 35 post-doctoral training 
programs are I t' 
She also rovides an excerpt from the U.S. News website discussin~---------~noting 
tha s one of onl 281 in the United States, and that it is ranked fourth 
on the ' list." he relies on this excerpt to demonstrate that 
distinguished reputation of.__ _________ ~ and its programs, and concludes by asserting 
that "my peer group constitutes a total of 35 post doctoral fellows. Of which, I am one of two who is 
highly specialized id I clinical chemistry." 
While we note the Petitioner's repeated assertion that she is one of 35 who received post-doctoral 
training in clinical chemistry, we refer to our previous determination that while such training may 
better qualify her to pursue a career as a clinical chemist than those who have not yet completed their 
education and training, she has not shown that the completion of that training is an achievement that 
stands out from those of her peers. Although she newly asserts on motion that only two of the 35 
ro rams offer training, and that she is one of two individuals who received 
'-------~ post-doctoral training in clinical chemistry, she cannot establish this claimed fact 
3 
with unsupported testimonial evidence alone. 1 Even if established, this fact alone is insufficient to 
demonstrate an outstanding achievement as contemplated by the membership criterion, as the 
Petitioner readily asserts that such positions are available annually to post-doctoral researchers in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also provides an article titled I r published by the American Association of Clinical Chemistry (AACC), which 
discusses the importance of I I clinical chemistry and the distinction between treatment of I µiseases and disorders from those ofl I She again reiterates her claim that she is an 
expert in I plinical chemistry, and relies on this article to demonstrate that her field is 
concentrated and she is one of a small percentage of individuals qualified to perform services in the 
field. This article, however, only provides a general overview of this field and does not identify the 
Petitioner by name or support her assertion that she is an expert in the field ofl !clinical 
chemistry. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's completion of a specialized course of study in the field of 
clinical chemistry, this article merely provides a general overview of the field of1 I health 
through laboratory medicine. The Petitioner once again appears to rely upon the small number of 
clinical chemists who have graduated from al I program, and the claimed small 
number of post-doctoral research programs available in the narrower field ofl I clinical 
chemistry. However, as discussed in our previous decision, the Petitioner has not shown how 
obtaining her degree and completion her post-doctoral training is an outstanding achievement as 
contemplated by this criterion. 
While we acknowledge the highlights of~ I outlined in the website excerpt 
from U.S. News, as well as the overview o I provided in 
the AACC article, we do not agree that this new evidence establishes that she has met the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires membership in associations in 
the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner previously maintains throughout the record that she specializes 
in the field o~, I clinical chemistry, it is unclear why this evidence was not previously submitted 
or whether it was unavailable for any reason. The Petitioner provides no explanation for not previously 
offering this evidence. 
For the reasons stated above, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion, nor has she shown that our previous decision was based upon an 
incorrect application of law or policy. 
1 The Petitioner states in her motion that andl l an~ I I are the only two hospitals in the United States that offer post-doctoral training that is exclusive! !specific. 
We note however, that the record lacks corroborating documentation of this claim, such as statistics or documentation 
frorrl I or from the hospitals themselves regarding the nature of their post-doctoral training programs. The record 
therefore does not support the Petitioner's assertion. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Regarding her claim that she also met the original contributions criterion, the Petitioner previously 
submitted evidence which she asserted showed how her research helped to form guidelines relating to 
.__ ______ _. that were adopted at thel I and other health care organizations. 
Specifically, the Petitioner resubmitted a copy of a paper she authored regarding .__ ______ _. 
which was published in Annals of Clinical & Laboratory Science, as well as two papers which make 
reference to that a er. She relied on one of these papers, titled '---"""T""--------.,,------.::,--~ 
'and ublished in Clinical Biochemistry in 2019, noting '-------------------r-~-~-----, that the paper's citation of her work o ~-------' demonstrates that her work has been 
implemented at "many hospitals." In dismissing her motion, we determined that this evidence did not 
overcome our previous finding that the extent of the Petitioner's contribution had not been established, 
as the paper indicated that hers was one of several papers which confirmed the ~-------' issue. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits copies of rapers she authored and claims that they serve as evidence 
of her original contributions in the field ofl !clinical chemistry. Preliminarily, we note that 
while the Petitioner lists six papers as being appended to the motion, only four of the six identified 
papers are actually included with her motion submission. 2 In addition, the Petitioner onl discusses 
one of the submitted documents; specifically, a case report titled'--------.--------,, I I' published by the AACC. Although she indicates on motion that I I' and constitutes "an original contribution and original w~o_r_k-,'-' -sh_e_d_o-es-n~ot 
provide any farther explanation regarding this claim. Moreover, it appears she is one of four authors 
of this paper; therefore, the extent of her contributions in comparison to the other authors, absent 
additional evidence, cannot be determined. 
The remaining three papers submitted on motion also indicate that she is one of multiple authors for 
each publication. There is no farther discussion or analysis regarding the subjects of these articles or 
the manner in which they constitute original contributions. These papers, as well as the AACC case 
study discussed above, do not satisfy the plain language of this criterion, which requires the Petitioner 
to demonstrate not only that her contributions are original, but also of major significance in the field. 
Although this evidence shows that the Petitioner's work contributed to the knowledge on the subject 
o~ !clinical chemistry, there is no evidence demonstrating that the field has changed as a result 
of these papers, or that the findings and/or research discussed therein is being implemented or 
reproduced within the field. While the Petitioner's authorship of these papers is notable, she has not 
shown how her original scientific contributions have been of major influence in the field, by providing, 
for example, evidence that her contributions have been widely implemented, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion, nor 
has she shown that our previous decision was based upon an incorrect application oflaw or policy. 
2 The motion does not contain a copy o"'-'f'---------------------------~ 
or '------------~ ~------------------~ 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not presented new facts sufficient to overcome our 
prior determination. While the evidence submitted on motion is new, it does not overcome our 
previous finding that the Petitioner did not meet the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
or the original contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), either viewed 
alone or in the context of the evidence previously submitted. 
For these reasons, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Although the Petitioner indicates that she is concurrently filing a 
motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's general request that we reconsider our prior decision does not 
specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 
Here, the Petitioner describes the new evidence she submits on motion under the evidentiary criteria 
relating to memberships and original contributions. However, the Petitioner does not argue or point 
to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in our prior decision, as required for a motion to 
reconsider. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of law or 
pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our 
decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider 
is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, our decision thoroughly analyzed and 
explained why every piece of evidence and argument addressed in the motion did not meet the 
regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in either misapplying 
law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, she does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. As 
such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and must therefore be 
dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
Accordingly, the combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19217950 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a creative technologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification 
through evidence of either a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time his pet1t10n was filed, the Petitioner was employed byl las a creative 
technologist. He earned a master of science degree in media arts and technology from the University 
of~------------~ in 2011, and has since worked to create interactive and 
experiential multimedia displays for tradeshows, tourist attractions and museums. He states that he 
intends to continue in this field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his leading or critical role for distinguished establishments 
and the display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Upon review, we agree 
that he meets these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to four additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all of the evidence 
in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, and has therefore not established that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a Petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association 
that is in their field, and that that association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership. In addition, the Petitioner must show that the quality of those achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
2 
The record shows that the Petitioner is a professional member of the Society for Experiential Graphic 
Design (SEGD). However, it does not include evidence which provides any level of specificity 
regarding SEGD' s membership requirements, or information regarding any judging process for 
membership applicants. Pages submitted from the association's website simply state that design 
memberships "are for people whose primary occupation or course of study is experiential graphic 
design or related fields ... " This material then lists the different types of membership and the benefits 
associated with each, a list of members, and a brief history of SEGD. 
In addition, in responding to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
SEGD's.__ _______________ ___. She provides background information on the 
association which is similar to that included on its website, and lists what she states are well-known 
SEGD members. But she does not provide further information regarding the requirements for SEGD 
membership at the Petitioner's or any level, nor does she shed light upon the membership application 
judging process. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points out that the Director failed to acknowledge the submission oO 
I Is letter. However, since that letter serves only to verify evidence that was already in the 
record, we find the Director's omission to be harmless. He also asserts that the totality of the evidence 
submitted under this criterion is sufficient to meet the preponderance of the evidence standard. But 
the Petitioner does not refer to evidence of any specific SEGD membership requirements or 
application review process, instead making conclusory statements and repeating the regulatory 
language on several occasions. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), afj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, 
*5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, l 997). 
In addition, in his appeal brief the Petitioner focuses on evidence of the successful completion of 
projects to which he contributed, and asserts that since this work is considered to be outstanding, as 
evidenced by reference letters, media reports and other evidence in the record, it served as the basis 
for his membership in SEGD and he therefore meets this criterion. But this argument fails, as the 
record lacks any evidence that shows that his role in those projects was considered when he submitted 
his application for membership, let alone who would have considered them. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does 
not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
There are several elements which must be satisfied for evidence to meet the requirements of this 
criterion. Specifically, a petitioner must show that the material has been published, that the publication 
is a professional or major trade medium or other major medium, that the material is about the 
petitioner, and that it relates to their work in the field for which classification is sought. Here, the 
Petitioner submitted materials published on several websites, some of which, like those published on 
3 
cnbc.com and nrimes.com, are clearly major media and relate to his work in the field. These articles 
discussl projects to which other evidence verifies the Petitioner contributed. However, as 
noted by the Director in his decision, they are not about the Petitioner but about the projects. They do 
not discuss the Petitioner's contribution to the projects, provide information about him and his work, 
or even mention him by name. Materials that do not pertain to a petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
The record also includes the Petitioner's profile pages on the SEGD website and on the website of 
Communication Arts (commarts.com). Regarding the SEGD profile, we note that the association 
promotes member profile pages as a significant membership benefit on its website, allowing members 
to network with each other. In his decision, the Director described this evidence as "self­
manufactured" and thus lacking in evidentiary weight. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that this 
conclusion runs counter to a plain language interpretation of the criterion, and that the profile otherwise 
meets all elements as described above. However, we note that the criterion also states that the evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material. Because none of this information is present in 
this material, it does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The material published on commarts.com consists of the Petitioner's profile, which is also missing a 
date of publication and author, and consists of photographs showing some of his work. Also included 
were a series of photographs of an installation at th ~-----------~ inl I which 
also lists the Petitioner as a contributor among others, and a feature article about one of his former 
employers.I I that does not mention him. As with the SEGD profile, the commarts.com 
profile lacks essential information to qualify under this criterion. Further, the other materials are not 
about the Petitioner: the material on the I I installation does not provide information about the 
Petitioner other than his name and job title, and the article aboutl I is about the history and 
founders of that company. As such, none of this material meets all of the required elements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In his initial submission, the Petitioner did not specifically claim to meet this criterion. Instead, he 
submitted two reference letters relating to his academic career and referred to these as comparable 
evidence. These letters, from two of the faculty members who served on his master's thesis committee 
at I I describe his thesis and other work which he completed as a graduate student. When 
responding to the Director's RFE, although the Petitioner continued to assert that this evidence should 
be accepted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), he also stated that the evidence serves to show his original 
contributions of major significance to his field. We further note that on appeal, he briefly refers to 
4 
additional reference letters as establishing his qualification under this criterion, although he does not 
specifically identify the contributions to his field shown by those letters. 1 
,..;;..T=h"""e"""'l"""e=tt"""erc.;;s;.......;;.;;fr~o=m=-....---------~~ and.__ _______ ____. of .... l __ _.ls .... l _____ ___. '--------~ program, describe the Petitioner's work during his graduate studies. They explain 
that for his thesis, he focused on and that this work 
resulted in system that was used in the program's immersive facility. 
lists two conference papers, a doctoral dissertation and a master's thesis that cite to 
._t_h_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r-'s____.thesis, which he states "confirms its pioneering importance." In her le~terl I I I describes other projects that the Petitioner completed during his time atl I all of 
which were included in the annual.__ ________ ___,' However, as noted in the Director's 
decision, the assertions by these experts that these were contributions of major significance to the 
Petitioner's field are not supported by documentary evidence. The record does not include copies of 
the citing articles, or other evidence which would otherwise indicate the extent and nature of the 
influence of the Petitioner's work on the authors or on the overall field . .__ ________ ___,' s 
conclusion that his work has "contributed significantly to the landscape of immersive and generative 
art as well as.__ __________ ~" simply repeats the regulatory language and provides no 
measure of the significance of the Petitioner's contributions as a graduate student, particularly to the 
broader field beyon~ I 
On appeal, the Petitioner expands his claim to this criterion to the additional reference letters submitted 
with his petition, and in particular those froml l CEO ofl I andl I 
CEO ofl I both former employers of the Petitioner.2 These letters describe many projects 
that the Petitioner contributed to during his employment with these companies, and refer to media 
coverage of the projects which is included in the record. I l's letter concludes that the 
Petitioner's work "has contributed significantly to th~ I experiences, directly 
impacting their cultural outreach." While this is undoubtedly true, his impact on these individual 
projects does not show that his work has impacted or influenced the overall field in any way. Although 
I I also writes about the Petitioner's contribution to the company's open source software 
toolkits, which he states are widely used by others in the field of creative technology to create user 
interfaces, the record does include evidence to support this statement or show the impact of these 
toolkits on the broader field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner's work on immersive projects for the and other 
~--___,lwas described in a letter frornl I, Director o-"L---....---------,__ _ ___. 
She indicates that she worked directly with him on digital installations for the.__ ____ ~ in the 
I, and also that she is familiar with his work on an installation 
.__a_t-th-e-rl--------.-1-S_h_e_a_ls_o_r_e__,fers to the Petitioner's "significant contributions to thd I 
public space, and Creative Technology field," but does not expand upon what these are beyond the 
completion of these projects. 
1 Because the Petitioner has submitted evidence which he asserts suppo1is his claim to the cntenon at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), he cannot demonstrate that this criterion does not apply to his occupation as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). We will therefore not further address his claim to have submitted comparable evidence. 
2 All of the reference letters submitted have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
Other letters also describe the Petitioner's contributions to immersive projects installed at several 
venues, and praise his work and the impact it had on these projects. However, although they confirm 
that he has played an important role in several creative technology projects which have been well 
received, they do not establish that his influence has reached beyond those individual projects to affect 
the way others in his field do their work, or has otherwise made original contributions of major 
significance. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salwy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted several forms of information regarding his salary, including Forms W-2 for 
the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. These show that in those years, he earned more than $117,000, 
$121,000 and $125,000, respectively. To show that his salary was high in relation to others in his 
field, he submitted the May 2019 edition of the Occupational Outlook Handbook's (OOH) section 
about graphic designers, which shows that in thel I metropolitan area where he lives and 
works, the annual mean salary is $68,690. 
In responding to the Director's RFE, and specifically his statement that the record did not include 
evidence to show that his salary was high in relation to other creative technologists, the Petitioner 
asserted that no statistics were available for that specific occupation "on the BLS website," and that 
the occupation of graphic designer "most mirrors the responsibilities and aspects of [the Beneficiary's] 
position, work in the field, and achievements as a "Creative Technologist."" On appeal, the Petitioner 
repeats these arguments, and reminds the AAO that he must only establish that he has met the 
requirements for this criterion by a preponderance of the evidence. Upon review, we agree with the 
Director that he has not done so. 
We first note that the fact that salary data does not exist for the specific occupation of creative 
technologist on the websites where the Bureau of Labor Statistics salary data is posted does not relieve 
the Petitioner of his burden to submit evidence in support of his assertions. The Director's RFE 
suggested several types of evidence that could be submitted by the Petitioner to show the relative 
salaries of others in his field, including media reports, lists or reports from professional organizations 
(such as SEGD), and other compensation surveys. The Petitioner chose not to submit such evidence 
despite the Director's specific request, and does not assert that this evidence also does not exist for the 
occupation of creative technologist. 
In addition, the Petitioner provides no support other than his own assertion for his position that the 
salary statistics for the position of graphic designer serve as an appropriate basis to compare his salary 
to that of others in his field. This is particularly striking because at the bottom of the first page of the 
OOH section on graphic designers it is stated that the occupational code for that occupation, 27-1024, 
excludes "Web and Digital Interface Designers." In addition, evidence in the record repeatedly refers 
to the Petitioner's previous job titles as "developer" and "senior developer" and describe his use of 
various software tools, thereby suggesting more appropriate occupational codes for which BLS data 
is readily available. Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that his salary is 
high in relation to others in his field, and does not meet this criterion. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20899882 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a wedding photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After operating his own photographic studio in South Africa for over a decade, the Petitioner entered the 
United States in 2018 as an 0-1 B nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability in the arts.1 Since 2018, he has 
served as creative director of photography for I in New York, which photographs 
corporate events. He also continues to operate his own wedding photography business. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work of 
others and display of his work. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the other five claimed 
criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only 
two of the claimed criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner has documented his receipt of various awards. On appeal, he limits his arguments to what 
he calls his "most important award," the 2017 Wedding Photographer of the Year Award from 
I 1.2 The prize included a trophy and several thousand dollars' worth of 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 B nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability, but the record of proceeding for the 
a pp roved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the same as 
those in the present proceeding, orwhetherthenonimmigrant petition was approved in error. Also, the nonimmigrant and 
immigrantcategorieshavedifforentdefinitions and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of 
arts" in the non immigrant 0-IB category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0 )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, 
"extraordinary ability" reflects thatthe individual is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field. 
2 Because the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding his other claimed a wards, he has waived 
appeal on those issues. SccMattcrojR-A-M-, 25 I&NDec. 657, 658n.2 (BIA2012) (stating that when a filing party fails 
2 
photographic equipment. The executive director of stated: "The Awards aims 
to recognize great work and provide an accolade for the best work in the industry .... The awards 
receive 5,000 photographic entries fromeachannual contest from over 1000 photographers ... in Africa." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested evidence of "the national or international 
significance of the awards or prizes." In response, the Petitioner stated: is is considered 
the most prestigious photography/cinematography competition in Africa." The passive voice of this 
sentence does not establish who holds that opinion. Letters from within the unsupported by 
additional evidence, do not necessarily reflect a national or international consensus in the field. 
The Petitioner added: "to show the significance of the awards we provide several articles and website 
coverage of past winners of this national competition." Most of the accompanying materials are from 
I I own website. The Petitioner also submitted a printout from a blog on another photographer's 
personal website, in which she listed her award as one of her "favorite achievements." Printouts 
from other websites, some of them unidentified, appear to be promotional in nature, including materials 
about a trade convention organized by the same individuals behind thee=] 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not "submitmajortrade publications 
or other major media conveying that the awards are nationally or internationallyreco gnized for excellence 
in the field of endeavor beyond the awarding entities." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
impermissibly imposed a new requirement beyond the wording of the regulations. 
Evidence of an a ward's recognition need not take the form of "major media," but the Director is correct 
that recognition of the award should extend "beyond the awarding entities" to effectively demonstrate its 
national or international significance The burden is on the Petitioner to establish the national or 
international significance of the prizes and awards. If a prize does not receive media attention when 
awarded, then there must be some other means to show the recognition afforded to it. Assertions by the 
about its own reputation and recognition do not suffice in this regard. The Petitioner has not 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish national or international recognition orl I awards outside 
the itself. 
We note the submitted evidence about the value of the prize, but the Petitioner submitted no basis to 
compare the prize to others in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner has shown that a number of companies 
in the industry sponsor the competition and related trade exposition, but the Petitioner offers no support 
for the assertion that "[l]arge multinational companies such as these do not sponsor small, unimportant 
competitions." The Petitioner, who bears the burden of proof: did not submit any corroborating evidence, 
such as statements from the sponsoring companies, or cite any source for this claim. As such, it appears 
to be an unsupported assumption rather than a statement of demonstrable fact. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US.Atty Gen., 40 I F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed several memberships, but limits his arguments on appeal to his 
membership in the International Society of Professional Wedding Photographers (ISPWP). A printout 
from the ISPWP' s website lists five requirements for membership: 
Experience Applicants musthavephotographedaminimum of50weddings as the 
primary in-charge photographer. ... 
Talent Applicants must submit their website and wedding galleries forreview 
and evaluation. The online galleries must demonstrate artistic and 
technical ability .... 
Integrity Applicants must have no outstanding complaints with consumer 
protection organizations such as the Better Business Bureau. 
Professionalism Applicants must agree to operate in accordance with the ISPWP Code 
of Conduct. ... 
References Applicants must be sponsored by an existing ISPWP member, or they 
must submit two client references and two wedding photographer 
references. This provides evidence as to their professionalism, 
reputation, and experience. 
The website further indicates that applicants "have to be voted in by current members." 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not established that the ISPWP requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. In response, the 
executive directorofthe ISPWP stated that membership is "limited to the best wedding photographers in 
the world." The official repeated essentially the same membership requirements quoted above. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the listed membership requirements are not outstanding 
achievements, and the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge 
the achievements of applicants for membership in the ISPWP. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "There are a plethoraofhoops to jump through in order to be accepted 
into this organization," such that "it becomes obvious to the reader that the criterion for membership is 
absolutely tantamount to requiring 'outstanding achievements of its members.'" The Petitioner does not 
address the requirement that the achievements must be judged by recognized national or international 
experts. 
The Petitioner also notes that the USCIS Po licy Manual names the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) 
as an example of an association with qualifying membership requirements. The Petitioner asserts that the 
NAS "requires candidates to be nominated by an academy member," which "is the EXACT situation with 
regards to Beneficiary's ISPWP membership" ( emphasis in the original). But the record does not 
establish a strong similarity. Materials in the record show that an applicant for ISPWP membership may 
have a member sponsor, but can substitute two letters of reference from clients or other photographers 
4 
(who need not be ISPWP members themselves) instead of member sponsorship. The Petitioner does not 
establish that the NAS solicits applications for membership, as the ISPWP does, or that the NAS's 
membership requirements are comparable to experience and adherence to a code of ethics. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown the ISPWP' s membership requirements rise 
to the level of outstanding achievements as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner 
has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The published material submitted under this criterion should be about the person, relating to the person's 
work in the field. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the person's products or 
promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be published material about the 
beneficiary. The person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field 
and mentions the person in connection to the work may beconsideredmaterial "about'' the person relating 
to the person's work. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted copies of pages from I I using the Petitioner's photographs as examples of proper posing and angles. The Petitioner is 
one of about 60 credited contributors to the book. The Petitioner also submitted printouts of several social 
media and blog posts using his photographs. While the Petitioner received credit for his photographs, the 
book and posts are not about him. He is not the principal subject of the materials, nor do those materials 
include a substantial discussion of his work. 
The Petitioner also photographed the wedding of a media personality. Social media posts and screen 
captures in the record indicate that the wedding was at least partially televised, and the Petitioner was 
credited as the photographer, but the wedding itself was clearly the subject of the coverage, and there is 
no indication that the coverage included substantial discussion of the Petitioner and his work as a 
photographer. 
The Petitioner features heavily in online videos and podcast interviews. These videos are on channels 
operated byl I which is a retailer of photographic equipment: I I which engaged the Petitioner 
as a brand ambassador, orl land the Petitioner himself. The Petitioner has not submitted 
transcripts from these videos, but given their sources, they appear to be promotional in nature. A letter 
froml I sales manager for thel I indicates that brand ambassadors "represent the 
brand of and their roducts," and that the Petitioner worked with the sales manager "to bring 
awareness of the ____ within the province." Marketing materials created for the pmpose of 
selling the person's products or promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be 
published material about the beneficiary. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The situation 
here appears to be comparable, in that the Petitioner received this covera e not because of his own work 
as a photographer, but because of a promotional arrangement with re · onal sales 
manager confirmed that the purpose of these appearances was "to promote _______ 
5 
I The Petitioner also appeared on podcasts and in video interviews on various social media sites, but the 
record does not include transcripts to show the actual content of these materials. The regulation requires 
the submission of the published material itself, rather than screenshots to show that an interview took 
place. The Petitioner provides figures regarding some of these materials, for instance indicating that 948 
viewers watched an interview on the ISPWP' s Face book page, butthe Petitioner did not provide a basis 
for comparison to show that these figures are consistent with major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner appeared on a podcast, and he established that an associated 
Instagram page has nearly 34,000 followers, but he did not establish that these followers correlate to the 
number of podcast listeners. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director didnottake into consideration thatthenature of published 
media has evolved, and now includes a great deal of online content. But the Director did not state that 
the submittedmaterialsdo notqualifyas "published materials" simply because they appearedonline. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the submitted materials meet the regulatory 
requirements, and that the inclusion of the Petitioner's photographs in published materials about 
individual weddings does not make those materials about the Petitioner. Nothing submitted on appeal 
overcomes the identified deficiencies. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(viii). 
For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or depar1ment of the organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. 
Initially, the Petitioner asserted that he performed in critical roles as a brand ambassador for I and 
forl I a manufacturer of camera straps. On appeal, he does not pursue the claim regarding 
sales manager stated that the company's brand ambassadors, ca11ed0 
"represent the brand of and their products ... on a national and international and 
international platform .... I I then gets feedback on theirproductsandservices." The sales manager 
indicated that the Petitionerrepresented the brand at various trade shows and reviewed and demonstrated 
its products on social media. The sales manager stated that the Petitioner's work "helped to boost the 
sales of [certain] Photographic Equipment in South Africa
1" but he did not provide specific information 
about the Petitioner's effect on those sales. A printout from !website identifies the Petitioner as 
one of nine lofSouthAfrica." 
The sales manager's letter describes the Petitioner's promotional work but does not explain how the 
Petitioner's role was of significant impmtance to the outcome of the activities of or a division or 
department thereof. 
6 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the managing director of I ___ who stated that the Petitioner "undeniably played a critical role for our company" with his 
product reviews. The official asserts: "Each time we released a video or article with [the Petitioner's] 
reviews, we saw sales of the products endorsed by [the Petitioner] rapidly rise." This vague statement 
does not provide enough information to show a reliable correlation between the Petitioner's reviews and 
increases in sales. The information in the record indicates that the Petitioner reviewed new products, 
which would not have had a significant sales histmy before the release of the reviews. The Petitioner 
sometimes reviewed products before their general release, as shown by commentary in one printout, 
indicating that retailers were "still awaiting ... local pricing and availability information." Also, the 
record does not indicate that the Petitioner's reviews were more influential than those of other reviewers, 
including those who reviewed the products independently rather than atl I invitation. 
The Petitioner has also asserted that "his photography studio [in South Africa] undeniably has a 
distinguished reputation," because he has photo graphed celebrity weddings and his work has appeared in 
prominent publications. In the United States, the Petitioner has photographed various events on behalf of I I The record indicates that these companies have secured lucrative and sometimes 
high-profile work, and the Petitioner contends that prominent clients "can choose any photography 
studio," and therefore their selection of the Petitioner's studio andl !demonstrates 
that those entities have a distinguished reputation. But the record does not establish how and why those 
clients chose the companies, and therefore does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof to establish 
this element. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
After the Director determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion, the Petitioner asserts on 
appeal that the Director's conclusion rested in part on a misreading of the evidence, and in part on 
inconsequential technicalities. We need not explore these finer points, because review of the evidence 
shows that the Petitioner has not actually documented his salary. 
Copies of invoices and promotional materials show the rates that the Petitioner's studios billed clients in 
South Africa and the United States. In South Africa, he offered packages for 10-12 hours of photography 
for R25,000 to R50,000. Invoices from the Petitioner's more recent work in the United States show fees 
between $1250 and $6000 for "12 hours of coverage." These fees, however, cover a number of expenses 
apart from the Beneficiary's own salary. The R50,000 package, for example, included a second 
photographer, for whom the Petitioner's studio would charge R4000 if hired separately; a 30 x 40 album, 
which would cost R9000 separately; 50 "Jumbo Prints," worth RI 500; and two "Parent Albums" which 
would costR2500, along with other expenses separate from the Petitioner's salary. Clearly, the Petitioner 
would have personally received only a fraction of the total fee, and he did not document how much of his 
fee he personally received as salary. 
Salary survey documents in the record have little evidentiary weight because the Petitioner has not 
established his actual salary, and therefore the Petitioner has not provided a suitable basis for comparison. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record shows that the 
Petitioner is a successful photographer, who has attracted some prominent clients and achieved a 
degree of visibility as a brand ambassador for I I The evidence submitted, however, does not 
rise to the level of satisfying at least three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and it 
does not show that he has earned sustained national or international acclaim that places him at the top 
of his field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22145416 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a broadcast news analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, she 
did not establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a broadcast news analyst. She states that she intends to 
continue her work in broadcasting and anchoring in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could 
meet six of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that she met three of them. Specifically, the 
Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional publications or major 
media, and authorship of scholarly articles in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (vi). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in her field, and leading or critical roles with organizations that 
have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that she met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
2 
analysis fails to address most of the evidence she submitted and should be overturned or remanded for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the final merits analysis is lacking a detailed discussion 
of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence 
relating to six of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly 
addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined she had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. Such evidence included multiple expert opinion letters 
that address her standing in the field, evidence related to her professional memberships, and evidence 
of her roles and contributions as a news anchor and journalist. Because the Director did not consider 
any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility for the requested classification. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20217088 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive in the oil and gas industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning a master's degree at the University of I as a Fulbright scholar, the Petitioner has 
worked for various com anies in the petroleum industry inl including !Corporation 
and Com an . Since 2017, he has been the commercial and marketing vice 
president of state-owned petroleum company. He intends "to []form a 
company in Florida to be able to build commercial equipment to do trading and development of 
business" with Latin America. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x ). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to membership in 
associations, participation as a judge, and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets all the previously claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria relating 
to judging and leading or critical roles. We disagree with the Director about memberships, because the 
record does not show that the Petitioner is a member of any qualifying associations. Rather, he has 
representedhis employers on the boards of associations for which the members are companies ratherthan 
individuals. 
But we further conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two other crite1ia, relating to published mate1ial 
about him in major media and original contributions of major significance. Because we agree with the 
Director's core finding that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we will proceed to the final merits determination. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established eligibility. 
The Director's final merits determination did not consider the record in its entirety. Rather, the Director 
focused on the criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3) that the Petitioner had met, and explained that, while the 
Petitioner had met the letter of those requirements, the evidence did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim. For instance, while the Petitioner's involvement in academic evaluations 
constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
not shown that such activity "places [him] among the small percentage of top executives at the very top 
of their field." The Director also questioned the weight of letters that the Petitioner had submitted in 
support of the petition. 
We agree with the general proposition that some of the initial criteria do not specifically contain a directly 
stated element of sustained national or international acclaim, while other criteria are more specifically 
worded.2 Additionally, we agree that establishing eligibility requires more than the submission of 
favorable letters alone. The record must reflect the individual's sustained national or international acclaim 
to merit approval. Neve1iheless, the Director's final merits deternnnation overlooks more persuasive 
elements of the record. Illustrative examples from the record show that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence.3 
Dinero magazine named the Petitioner among lin 2003. This accolade, by itself, 
speaks more to the Petitioner's promise than to his achievements at that time, but later materials in the 
record have borne out early predictions ofhis potential. In more recent years, the Petitioner has heldhigh­
ranking executive positions at major oil and gas companies. Such positions are not sufficient to place him 
at the top of the field, but they are consistent with such stature, and other evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has done more than simply hold high-ranking offices at major energy companies. 
Using his high profile inl I oil and gas industry, he has expanded and reshaped that indus1ry, 
participating in negotiations that significantly increased exp01is. An advisor tol I stated that the 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
2 For instance, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) refers specifically to "membership in associations ... which 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts," whereas 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(iv)refers generally to "participation ... as a judge ofthework ofothers," without consideration as 
to the level of judging, the nature of the circumstances where the judging occurs, and whether such judging is a routine 
element ofone'sjob duties. 
3 That record encompasses several thousand pages of submissions, and we will not attempt a comprehensive review of all the 
evidence here. 
3 
Petitioner "led, structured, and negotiated the ______ contract between! I and 
Venezuela, which is unique in Latin America." A major shipment of a million barrels of crude oil to 
South Korea received coverage on a major television network, indicating that interest in this work had a 
reach beyond specialized media that focus solely on business transactions. The Petitioner's participation 
in several industry conferences, both as a speaker and as a panel moderator, have given him the 
opportunity to disseminate his expertise throughout the industry, increasing its reach and influence 
compared to proprietary innovations and strategies that a company might keep confidential in order to 
gain commercial advantage.4 At an 2021 forum on renewable energy, the Petitioner was one of six 
participants, alongside I then-current Minister of I The participation of this 
top-level official is an indication of the high profile of the event. 
As noted above, the Petitioner's positions within various industry associations is not membership in such 
associations, but we agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that his membership in their boards of 
directors and other governing bodies is, itself: an indication of his stature in the field. 
Review of the totality of the record supports the conclusion that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Therefore, we will sustain the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 Participation in industry gatherings is not, in and of itself, demonstrative of sustained national or international acclaim. 
Rather, we acknowledge this activity within the broader context of converging lines of evidence that indicate the 
Petitioner's stature in his field. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 16, 2024 In Re: 30867421 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of global brand and marketing communication strategy, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he is an established media and communication professional with nearly 20 
years of experience . He began his career as a journalist in China where he focused on news in the 
automotive industry. The Petitioner joined I Ia Chinese internet media company , as 
director of the "Auto Channel." The Petitioner states that while with he continued his studies 
and research in journalism in the United States, where he focused on "strategic communications , 
especially business journalism, changing media business models, leadership and media sales." He 
thenjoinedl Ian electric vehicle company, and currently serves as their director 
of global marketing and communication strategy and planning, as well as head of visual design. He 
seeks to continue in this position in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner initially claimed that he met nine of these criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original business-related contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional or trade publications ; 
• ( vii), Display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments 
with a distinguished reputation ; and 
2 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, m 
relation to others in the field. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record was not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner met any of the claimed criteria. The Director 
allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to attempt to demonstrate that he 
satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and reasserted that he met the 
following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments 
with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in 
relation to others in the field. 
In his response to the RFE, the Petitioner did not disagree with the Director's conclusions or submit 
additional evidence regarding the following criteria: 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; and 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in professional or trade publications. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence in support of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner asserts that the Director dismissed evidence that establishes that he 
satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). For the 
reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner has established that he meets one criterion, 
specifically the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), having performed in a leading role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. However, as he has only met one criterion, he has not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements. 
3 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets this criterion based on his two undergraduate degrees from 
China, his master's degree in fine arts from the United States, and two certificates of completion from 
the __________ Visiting Professional Program. In addition, he submitted evidence 
that he received the following awards: 
• !Award, 2021; 
• ______ ward, 2019; 
• 
• _____ Scholarship, 2019;IScholarship, 2021; and 
• _________ Fellowship, 2021. 
In the RFE, the Director noted that the Petitioner's degrees, professional certificates, scholarships and 
fellowship were not considered awards and did not meet the plain language of the criterion described at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The degrees and certificates establish that the Petitioner successfully 
completed academic programs, but he has not established that these constitute either prizes or awards. 
The Petitioner has also not established that his scholarships and fellowship are nationally or 
internationally recognized, or that they are awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, media and 
communication. 
The Director also noted that the record did not include information about the ________ 
Award or the _____ _,Award, such as major trade publications or other media demonstrating 
that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner only provided information about thel !Award. 
The Director concluded that, although the award is a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence in marketing, the award was given to the Petitioner's employer, I 
rather to the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this 
criterion. Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g.,MatterofO-R-E-, 28 I&NDec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA2021) (citingMatterofRA-M-, 25 I&NDec. 
657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet the standards of this criterion, an individual must submit evidence that 1) they are a member 
of an association; 2) the association is in their field of extraordinary ability; 3) the association requires 
outstanding achievements as a condition for membership; and 4) that the outstanding achievements 
are judged by national or international experts in their fields. 
4 
In support of this criterion the Petitioner submitted evidence of his participation in the following: 
• As a panel member at the 2013 Conference of _______ of China; 
• As a judge at the Award Ceremony of Outstanding Brands of Chinese 
I land 
• As a member of the Global Marcom Strategy Committee. 
In the RFE, the Director noted that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that these associations 
require outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in theirin their fields. He also noted that the Petitioner's participation as a member of the I I 
Global Marcom Strategy Committee appeared to be a job-related duty. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided no new evidence, but requested that the Director 
consider his selection "as a member of the 20 person professional panel of judges" of the I I 
I Iconference as evidence that he meets this criterion. The Director concluded that the 
record did not establish that the 2013 Conference of of China or the Award 
Ceremony of Outstanding Brands of Chinese ________ are associations within the 
meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this 
criterion. Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion requires evidence showing published material about the individual and their work in the 
field of extraordinary ability. In addition, that material must include basic information such as its title, 
date and author, and must have been published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. The phrase "other major media" is generally accepted to mean a publication with 
significant reach and recognition, and it follows that we may reasonably require evidence of the same 
type ofreach and recognition through circulation data. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 
(D. N.J. 2021). 
The record includes several published articles, some mentioning the Petitioner and some featuring the 
Petitioner. 1 The Petitioner also provided printed entries published on Wikipedia and his biographic 
information published on several websites. The Director determined that this criterion was not met 
because the Petitioner did not submit evidence to demonstrate that the articles were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Director noted that the record did 
not include evidence to establish the circulation statistics for the publishing sources, or evidence of 
the intended audience for the publications, although this was specifically requested in the RFE. 
1 While we discuss a sampling of these articles, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
Additionally, the Director noted that some ofthe articles were in a foreign language and did not include 
full English translations, and some material did not identify the author, only an "editor." The Director 
cited to the specific requirement of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) that "evidence shall include the title, 
date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation." The Director further determined that 
not all of the articles relate to the Petitioner's work in the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director erred in determining that the published material about 
him is not related to his field of endeavor in media and communication. He further asserts that the 
English translations ofthe materials he provided are ofthe relevant information that is "necessary" for 
this criterion, and that the Director incorrectly concluded that an editor may not also be an author. The 
Petitioner states that the published material about him includes "feature articles, personal profiles, 
biographical sketches, news reports and interviews, internet search results and citations in professional 
and major media and trade publications in print as well as on the worldwide web." 
As the Director noted, some of the published material the Petitioner submitted does not include a full 
English translation of the original. For example, the Petitioner provided an English translation of an 
article published on the website auto.ifeng.com in 2014, titled 
I IThe translation states, "The following is the transcript of a speech given by [the 
Petitioner]J I Deputy Director, Chief Writer, and Founder of the _____ ," 
but no English translation of the actual speech is provided. An English translation of another article, published I2014, states, "[the Petitioner], on the website www. l 2gang.com on I 
Deputy Editor-In-Chief and Chief Writer, spent an hour and half exchanging ideas and 
interacting with over a hundred members ofthe audience on different career paths atl I 
However, there is no further translation and the article does not address the value of the Petitioner's 
work and contributions.2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l). The Petitioner did not submit 
complete English translations in response to the RFE or on appeal. Therefore, we are precluded from 
determining whether this material demonstrates that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
We note that several published materials in the record, while mentioning the Petitioner, do not discuss 
the Petitioner's work in the field of media and communication. For example, a 2014 post published 
on thel Iwebsite, titled I Iincludes a 
photo with a caption mentioning that the Petitioner presented a commemorative album on behalf of 
I Ito a Tesla executive. However, the publication does not include any discussion of the 
value of this action to the field of media and communication. 
The record includes two published materials that relate to the Petitioner's art exhibitions. A 2015 
article titled I published on "The Website 
of Phoenix New Media Limited," discusses the Petitioner's solo oil aintin exhibition. A second 
article, titled was published on 
the blog, The Missouri Atlas, on __ 2016 and discusses the Petitioner's artwork and journalism 
career. However, the articles do not discuss the value of the Petitioner's contributions to the field of 
2 We note that the record includes a second, identical English translation of this article. The second translation states that 
it was published in Forbes magazine on , 2014. The record does not include a copy the original article in 
Forbes. Further, neither translation provides the name of the author, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
6 
media and communication. Additionally, the Petitioner does not provide evidence that "The Website 
of Phoenix New Media Limited" or The Missouri Atlas blog are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, such as their relevant circulation, readership or viewership that 
should be compared to other statistics. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), ("In evaluating whether a 
submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant 
factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative 
circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media"). 
The record includes a printout from thel !website with a photo and "biographic sketch" of 
the Petitioner describing his academic background and career, published on I I 2007. The 
biography appears to be for the purpose of identifying the Petitioner as a member of theI I 
staff. Similarly, a printout from the I Iwebsite includes a biographic 
profile of the Petitioner and samples of his artistic work. Regarding these types of materials, the 
USCIS Policy Manual notes, "Any materials the petitioner submits must demonstrate the value of the 
person's work and contributions ... Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the person's 
products or promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be published material 
about the person." Id. The biographic information and personal profiles do not include any discussion 
of the value of the Petitioner's work and contributions and do not demonstrate that he meets this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references an article titled, 
____________________ written by _________ and 
asserts that this demonstrates that there is published material about him in major media related to his 
work in media and communication. The Petitioner states that the article was published on thel I 
website and covers an interview he gave on China's Central Television where he gives his "view 
on the action against monopoly in auto." 
The English translation of the article states, "[the Petitioner] I I Chief Writer, expressed his 
believe that the action against monopoly in auto is an upgrading of management of the consumption 
process ... " There is no further translation of the article. The record includes a photograph that the 
Petitioner titled "In 2014, I had interview on China Central Television CCTV News Channel," and a 
CD with content the Petitioner labeled "[the Petitioner's] Interview on China's Central TV (CCTV)." 
However, the record does not include a transcript with English translation of the interview. Nor does 
the record include evidence demonstrating the value of this interview to the field of media and 
communication. 
For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that they 
have not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the 
7 
judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2, supra. 
With the initial filing the Petitioner asserted that his duties with ____________ 
Dincluded job responsibilities to "recruit, appraise and guide qualified personnel in the field." In 
support of his claim, the Petitioner references the following evidence: 
• An article from the I !website with English translation, titled 
dated 2010. The 
article was written by the Petitioner and lists his position as "Chief Writer and 
Director of the News Department," and describes his responsibilities. 
• An offer letter from _______ dated May 4, 2021, offering the 
Petitioner the position of Director, Global Marcom Strategy and Planning and 
includes a list of responsibilities. 
In the RFE, the Director stated, "in an occupation where judging the work of others is an inherent duty 
of the occupation, simply performing one's job-related duties demonstrates competency but is not 
evidence that one's 'achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise.'" 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated, "I have no additional evidence as you requested in the 
notice for this category to submit at this time. But I reserve the right to dispute the interpretation of 
the meaning ofjudging in the notice." 
The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this 
criterion. Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5. 
Although we deem this issue waived, we do not agree with the Director's specific reasoning in 
concluding that the evidence in the record was not sufficient. We have reviewed the Petitioner's initial 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion de nova, however, and we conclude that it does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the plain language requirements. The job responsibilities described 
in the article and in the offer letter do not describe the Petitioner's role as a judge of the work of others 
in the field ofmedia and communication. Neither submission indicates that the Petitioner was "invited 
to judge the work of others." Neither description mentions whose work the Petitioner reviews or even 
what type of work he reviews. The record does not include evidence that the Petitioner actually 
participated as a judge or of any works he judged that were in the field of media and communication. 
Additionally, the article from the I I website was written by the Petitioner and is not 
independent, objective evidence in support of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2, supra. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
8 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In support of this criterion the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters and an expert opinion 
letter. The Petitioner also provides his original articles and reports about the automotive industry in 
China. 
The Director concluded that the evidence established that the Petitioner is "engaged in the field" but 
was not sufficient to demonstrate "original contributions that can be considered of major significance 
to the field." He determined that the recommendation letters did not illustrate how the Petitioner's 
contributions are both original and of major significance in the field. He noted that one 
recommendation letter did not include information required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g) but did not identify 
what specific information was missing. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in not considering the recommendation and 
support letters as probative evidence that he meets this criterion. He notes that the Director did not 
identify what information was missing from the recommendation letter and states that "six expert 
testimonies all contain specific discussion of my accomplishments in detail from one or several 
perspectives, and are all backed by objective documentary evidence." The Petitioner also asserts that 
the Director did not consider his original publications, including evidence that his reports were "cited 
and commented widely within and outside China," and included "interviews with industry and 
government leaders" such as Elon Musk of Tesla, Peter Mertens of Volvo, and Rufus Yerxa of the 
World Trade Organization. 
Upon review of the recommendation and expert opinion letters in the record, we agree with the 
Director's analysis that the letters do not establish the Petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 
A recommendation letter from I I professor at praises the 
Petitioner as a student ofwriting and for his course project, a memoir that the Petitioner self-published. 
However, the letter does not discuss how the Petitioner's work has been of major significance in the 
field of media and communication. 
A recommendation letter from I I professor at __________ describes 
the Petitioner's "creative contributions" in fine arts, performance, writing, and music. However, the 
letter does not discuss how the Petitioner's works have been ofmajor significance in the field ofmedia 
and communication. 
A recommendation letter from _____________ also praises the Petitioner as a 
student and writer, as well as musician, noting that his music has been played on "the city's best 
progressive music station." However, the letter does not explain how Mr. I I is in a position 
to judge the Petitioner's work or how the Petitioner's work has been of major significance in the field 
of media and communication. 
A recommendation letter froml IEditor-In-Chief of ______ (China), describes 
the Petitioner's career and accomplishments as a journalist and artist. He states, "Since he started his 
9 
I career, he has stood out by making original contributions of major significance." Mr. then 
describes those contributions only generally and without specificity. For example, he states that the 
Petitioner's work as a reporter and editor "set a new standard for journalistic writing." However, he 
does not elaborate to describe this standard or its significance to media and communication. Mr.I 
states that the Petitioner created new organizations on his own, including 
_______ However, Mr.I does not describe these organizations or their significance 
to the field of media and communication. Nor does the record include detailed information about the 
objective of these organizations or describe how these organizations are contributions of major 
significance to media and communication. 
A recommendation letter froml I former treasurer ofl Idescribes the Petitioner's 
professional contributions, including creating "well-known Chinese media platforms I 
as well as creating "an event titled _________ 
a seven day journey from Beijing to Shenzhen testing the viability of an electric vehicle." Mr. 
_ also points to the Petitioner's "exclusive breaking news report" inc=] 2009 on the Geely 
Holding Group purchase of Volvo that "generated worldwide attention and commentary in the global 
economy and industry." Although Mr. I I describes the Petitioner's contributions as 
"impressive," he does not describe the significance of these contributions to the field of media and 
communication. 
An expert opinion letter from Dr.I of the _______ __,discusses the Petitioner's 
work as a student of journalism and in media and communication. He praises the Petitioner's 
accomplishments and states that his past successes demonstrate his exceptional ability. He also notes 
that the Petitioner earned three "merit-based awards in the art field, proving his extraordinary 
achievements in comparison to others." However, Dr. I does not explain how the Petitioner's 
achievements, including his awards in art, were of major significance to the field of media and 
communication. 
In reviewing the Petitioner's other evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we note that the 
record does not include full English translations of the Petitioner's original articles, as required by 8 
C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3)(stating that any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall 
be accompanied by a certified "full English language translation"). The Petitioner provided 
translations of author, title, publication and date. However, without complete English translations of 
the content of these works, we are precluded from determining that they are contributions of major 
significance in the field of media and communication. 
The Petitioner submitted ac=] 2009 article that he wrote for the _______ regarding 
the Geely Holding Group purchase of Volvo. He asserts that this article was an "international 
exclusive news report" that "generated global media repost and created a huge buzz internationally." 
The record includes a partial English translation of the content of the article, which indicates that a 
Chinese government official served as the Petitioner's source of information on the sale agreement 
and that the information "has not been officially confirmed by the two parties yet." The translation 
credits the Petitioner as reporter and another person as "intern." The Petitioner also provided multiple 
articles from various news sources also reporting news of Geely' s purchase of Volvo. He asserts that 
his original article served as the foundation for these additional reports globally. However, none of 
these articles cites directly to the Petitioner's article as a source. Nor does the Petitioner explain how 
10 
his exclusive news report, while potentially important to news in the automotive industry, was ofmajor 
significance to the field of media and communication. 
We acknowledge that the record includes evidence of the Petitioner's original artistic work, including 
a self-published book and art exhibitions. However, the record does not include evidence that these 
original works are contributions of major significance to the field of media and communication. We 
acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that he organized an event to test a Tesla electric vehicle in 
China. However, the record does not include documentary evidence to support this claim. We also 
acknowledr the Petitioner's assertion that he founded "professional organizations of far-reaching 
influence" However, the Petitioner does not describe 
these organizations in sufficient detail or explain their significance to the field of media and 
communication.3 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien 's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record includes evidence of multiple articles the Petitioner wrote in his role as a journalist in the 
automative industry in China. The record also includes evidence that the Petitioner authored and 
published a work of fiction titled 
In the RFE, the Director noted that the record did not include evidence that the Petitioner's book was 
written in his field or that it was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated, "I have no additional evidence as requested for 
this category to be submitted at this time." 
The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this 
criterion. Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5. 
Evidence ofdisplay ofthe alien 's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
As noted above, the record includes evidence that the Petitioner's original artwork has been displayed 
at artistic exhibitions. In the RFE, the Director determined that the Petitioner's art exhibitions were 
not related to his field. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided evidence describing the field of media and 
communication. He provided evidence of his official job description as Director of Global MarCom 
and asserted that this includes "art and design." He also provided a personal statement describing his 
art exhibitions as "related to [his] contributions to media and communication in general." He 
3 We note that, in his recommendation letter, Mr. references these organizations as "well-known Chinese media 
platforms," rather than "professional organizations," as the Petitioner and Mr. I l in his letter, describe them. The 
Petitioner does not explain these inconsistencies. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring a 
petitioner to resolve inconsistences of record). 
11 
explained that art and business are not mutually exclusive in the interdisciplinary field of media and 
communication. 
The Director concluded that the additional evidence did not establish that the Petitioner's artistic 
exhibitions were in the field of media and communication. The Petitioner does not address or contest 
on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this criterion. Accordingly, we deem these 
grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 
330, 336 n.5. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department ofthe organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), supra. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam- Webster's online dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person."' Id. 
The Petitioner points to his roles with I I various news outlets in China, and 
I in support of this criterion. The Director determined that, although the Petitioner 
established that these organizations have a distinguished reputation, this criterion was not met because 
the evidence did not show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has performed in a critical role for his previous employers. 
He cites to his roles as "Deputy Editor-in-Chief and Chief Writer" withl !"Associate 
director of editorial department" with I I "Senior Reporter" with I I 
I I "Director of the auto news department" with and "Director, Global 
MarCom Strategy and Planning" with _______ The Petitioner also references letters 
from his former employers which provide detailed descriptions of the duties of these roles, an 
organizational chart reflecting his leadership position with Faraday, and recommendation letters that 
describe his contributions of significant importance. 
The recommendation and support letters in the record from previous employers describe in sufficient 
detail the Petitioner's role as leading or critical. 
Upon review of the entire record, including the organizational chart, experience and recommendation 
letters describing the Petitioner's role and responsibilities and contributions, as well as published 
material about the distinguished reputation of the Petitioner's current and former employers, we 
12 
conclude that the Petitioner has met this criterion. Therefore, this portion of the Director's decision is 
withdrawn. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To establish eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), a petitioner must show that 
they have commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field. Evidence relevant to demonstrating an individual's high salary may include 
comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as geographical or position­
appropriate compensation surveys. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), supra. 
The Petitioner provided wage data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for media and 
communication workers in California for 2020. He also submitted an offer letter froml II I stating his offered annual salary as $180,000. 
In the RFE, the Director declined to consider the Petitioner's offered salary withl IHe stated, 
"The letter from I I holds no evidentiary value ... letters of employment only indicate 
what you may earn and not what you have actually earned." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted copies of 2023 pay and tax records documenting his 
annual income in 2022, an employment verification letter, and additional comparative wage data. The 
Petitioner's 2022 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, which reflects his total compensation with 
as $166,881.28. The Petitioner's pay stubs for March and April 2023 reflect 
that the Petitioner was paid $7,500 biweekly, and a one-time bonus of$1,250. His year-to-date earning 
as of April 30, 2023, are stated as $64,652.03, including regular salary, bonus and stock options. A 
May 2023 employment verification letter states the Petitioner's annual compensation as $180,000. 
Additional wage data in the record from Payscale.com for 2023, indicates that a marketing director in I !California, with a bachelor's degree has a salary range of $41,000 to $130,000, with an 
average salary of $74,344. 
The Director declined to consider the Petitioner's 2023 pay records and 2022 Form W-2 as these were 
issued after the petition's filing in October 2022. Citing to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12), and Matter of 
Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm.1971), the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish eligibility as of the date of filing and did not meet this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional pay records dated prior to the date offiling. The additional 
evidence reflects that the Petitioner was consistently paid $7,500 biweekly since July 2022, prior to 
the date of filing. 
The Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion was based on the conclusion 
that the Petitioner's evidence of salary and remuneration was either a projection of future income 
based on his offer of employment or was dated after the date of filing. However, in evaluating this 
criterion, USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has commanded" to mean that the person must have 
already earned such salary or remuneration. Therefore, a credible contract or job offer showing 
13 
prospective salary or remuneration may establish that the person has been able to command such 
compensation. Id. 
The Petitioner's 2022 Form W-2 provides sufficient evidence that the Petitioner "has commanded" a 
salary as a media and communications worker, the occupation he intends to pursue in the United States. 
The Petitioner's May 2023 employment verification letter further demonstrates that his prospective 
salary as Director, Global MarCom Strategy and Planning can be considered additional evidence in 
this instance. However, the record does not include comparative wage or remuneration data for the 
proper comparison position. 
The BLS wage data reflects that the mean salary for California-based "media and communication 
workers, all other" was $49,730 in 2020. However, the Petitioner has not established that the BLS 
mean salary data for "media and communication workers, all other" is an appropriate basis for 
comparison to his offered salary at the level of "director." 
The data from Payscale.com reflects that the average salary for a California-based marketing director 
with a bachelor's degree was $74,344 in 2023. While we may consider the Petitioner's prospective 
salary in 2023, the record does not demonstrate that the data from Payscale.com is comparable to the 
Petitioner's position. Demonstrating that his total remuneration is high compared to the average base 
salaries in the field does not suffice. The data from Payscale.com does not include a specific job 
description for marketing director. Salary surveys that rely on broad occupational categories that 
include multiple occupations or multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to others 
in the field. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), supra. 
The Petitioner does not provide additional comparative wage data on appeal. Upon de novo review 
of the comparative wage data, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established by a preponderance 
of the evidence that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Summary 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that he satisfies the initial 
evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), having performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations with distinguished reputations. However, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we 
need not fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level ofexpertise required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments in media and communication is indicative 
14 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 16, 2024 In Re: 24443220 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner has a varied history in the performing arts and associated occupations and he seeks 
classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that although the record established that the Petitioner met at least three oftheten 
regulatory criteria, he did not warrant an approval considering the totality of the evidence. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of 
the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this 
matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met eight ofthe regulatory criteria. The Director decided 
that the Petitioner satisfied four of the criteria relating to published material, judging, display of the 
Petitioner's work, and performing in a leading or critical role. But the Director concluded he did not 
satisfy the criteria associated with prizes or awards, original contributions, high salary or 
remuneration, or commercial success. Within the final merits determination, the Director decided the 
Petitioner's claims and evidence did not show that he is one of that small percentage who have risen 
to the top ofthe field ofendeavor, nor did it reflect his achievements set him significantly above almost 
all others in the field at a national or international level and does not establish sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner presents four procedural errors in the Director's decision for this appeal. Those relate to: 
(1) the Director's application ofthe sustained acclaim requirement; (2) the totality ofthe evidence method; 
(3) by improperly dismissing individual criteria under step one (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) the 
Director failed to properly conduct a final merits analysis based on the totality of the evidence, and the 
failure to explain why the evidence did not meet the requisite level of acclaim resulting in an abuse of 
discretion. 
A Petitioner's Proposed Sustained National or International Acclaim Method is Incorrect 
Relating to the Petitioner's first argument that the Director did not properly approach the sustained 
acclaim evaluation, he posits there are two methods for demonstrating sustained national or international 
acclaim. Those consists of showing one is the recipient of a one-time achievement, or alternatively that 
satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). But we do not fully 
agree with that opinion. First the USCIS Policy Manual speaks to this issue: 
When filing a petition for a person with extraordinary ability, the petitioner must submit 
evidence that the person has sustained national or international acclaim and that the 
person's achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise.[] In determining 
2 
whether the beneficiary has enjoyed "sustained" national or international acclaim, the 
officer should consider that such acclaim must be maintained.[] However, the term 
sustained does not imply an age limit on the beneficiary. A beneficiary may be very young 
or early in his or her career and still be able to show sustained acclaim. There is also no 
definitive time frame on what constitutes sustained. 
If a person was recognized for a particular achievement, the officer should determine 
whether the person continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of 
expertise since the person was originally afforded that recognition. A person may, for 
example, have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
We are not persuaded by the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding what constitutes sustained 
acclaim, and he does not address the guidance within the USCIS Policy Manual. We will say that within 
this segment of the brief, the Petitioner's reading of the regulation does not take into account that the 
one-time achievement and the ten regulatory criteria are intended as the first step ( e.g., the means) paving 
one's way to get to the end-or step two-being the final merits determination. The Kazarian decision 
supports this interpretation when it found evaluating sustained acclaim under the ten regulatory criteria 
rested on an improper understanding of the regulatory requirements. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d at 
1121. 
Sustained national or international acclaim played a role in two of the regulatory areas the Director 
discussed in their final merits determination. First when discussing the display of the Petitioner's work, 
then for his performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments. 
Regarding the display ofthe Petitioner's work, the Director discussed the display of his film in 20 l Oand 
determined that did not demonstrate his work has "been consistently displayed at the top exhibit and 
showcase venues throughout the national or international communities for the field." Here, the Director 
did not simply list the 20 l Odisplay as any event, but instead they evaluated the level associated with the 
display (e.g., top exhibitions and showcase venues). On appeal, the Petitioner notes 15 subsequent 
instances where his work was on display without addressing the level at which the display occurred. On 
remand, the Director should consider whether any of those instances in 2019 resulted in acclaim on a 
national or international level, and whether all of the instances lead the Director to decide they are 
commensurate with those who are part of the small fraction of individuals at the very top of the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
Turning to the Petitioner's leading or critical role and whether that reflected his sustained national or 
international acclaim in this area, the Director noted the Petitioner's roles dated back to 2011 and 2014 
and decided this was insufficient to demonstrate sustained acclaim considering the seven-year gap from 
2014 to the petition filing year. Within the Petitioner's appeal he only offers a discussion relating to the 
definition of sustained acclaim that we addressed above and determined his interpretation of that 
regulatory requirement to be incorrect. In other words, although the Petitioner contests the Director's 
conclusion in this regulatory area in the final merits determination, he does not offer any additional 
3 
instances in which he performed in a leading or critical role that should be factored into any future final 
merits analysis in this regulatory topical area. 
B. The Director's Totality of the Evidence Method was Proper 
Next, the Petitioner's second argument in the appeal is that the Director erred in their totality of the 
evidence analysis, which we also do not find to be persuasive. The Petitioner proposes that demonstrating 
one has received a one-time achievement, or meeting three of the criteria is all that is required to 
demonstrate: (1) a level of expertise indicating the individual is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor; (2) sustained national or international acclaim; and (3) there 
is extensive documentation regarding their achievements. The Petitioner's proposed methodology is 
directly refuted by both the Kazarian decision and USCIS Policy Manual, and the Petitioner doesn't argue 
why those authorities should be set aside in favor of the method he proposes in this appeal. 
We do not agree with the Petitioner's assertions in the appeal brief that USCIS is restrained in the method 
it utilizes to perform a final merits determination. The adjudicating officer is free to address a petitioner's 
achievements in each ofthe regulatory areas ( e.g., prizes or awards, membership, published material, etc.) 
to evaluate the level of the petitioner's national or international acclaim and the extent to which their 
achievements have been recognized in the field to determine whether they have established: 
a) The foreign national has sustained national or international acclaim; 
b) His or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise through extensive 
documentation; and 
c) The beneficiary has attained a level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
And that is the method the Director utilized here. The Petitioner claims there is no basis in the plain 
language ofthe regulation to support the method the Director used. The Kazarian decision described the 
appropriate two-part adjudicative approach to evaluating evidence and in 2010 USCIS amended its policy 
based on that approach. See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual 
(AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 3 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
Although the Petitioner does discuss the Kazarian decision, it appears he misunderstands its findings. In 
fact the Kazarian court stated: "While other authors' citations ( or a lack thereof) might be relevant to the 
final merits determination ofwhether a petitioner is at the ve,y top ofhis or her field ofendeavor, they 
are not relevant to the antecedent procedural question ofwhether the petitioner has provided at least three 
types of evidence." Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 (emphasis added). This serves as the Kazarian court's 
acknowledgement that it is within the final merits determination that USCIS is to evaluate the qualitative 
statutory and regulatory requirements. 
In the Petitioner's final point under his second procedural argument, he points to an unpublished 2017 
decision from this office that performed a final merits determination. But that decision related to a 
different classification altogether and the Petitioner has not shown why that is relevant to the restrictive 
immigrant classification he seeks in this petition. The unpublished decision relates to a foreign national 
applying for 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. We note 
4 
that nonimmigrant classification is based on a different standard-statute, regulations, case law, and 
agency policy. Considering the Petitioner has not argued how these two distinctly different 
classifications are handled procedurally in the same manner, we will not offer any additional analysis 
for the Petitioner's final point here. 
C. Petitioner's Claims that Dismissing Regulatory Criteria Adversely Affects the Final Merits Analysis 
is Incorrect 
That brings us to the Petitioner's third appellate argument, and the appeal brief begins that section with 
the following: 
As a result of the adjudication errors described above, the Service deprived the Petitioner 
ofa proper Final-Merits Analysis ofthe big-picture totality ofthe evidence, by improperly 
dismissing criterion one-by-one using an incorrect definition of 'sustained,' by 
erroneously applying standards intended for the totality of the evidence to evidence for 
individual criteria which produces circular logic, and by abusing its discretion by ignoring 
evidence and by failing to explain why other evidence was dismissed as insufficient. 
Petitioner's counsel does not offer clear arguments here. Counsel's complex sentence structure 
diminishes their argument's clarity, making it difficult to follow and obscuring their key points. It appears 
counsel is attempting to argue one oftwo points, but we cannot be sure so we will address both. The first 
possibility we could glean is counsel is alleging that by dismissing individual regulatory requirements 
under step one-improperly dismissing them according to the Petitioner-this negatively affects the final 
merits determination analysis. 
The second possibility could be that counsel alleges that because the Director organized their final merits 
discussion of the evidence in a sequential order-similar to the way they reviewed the evidence to 
evaluate whether the Petitioner met the plain language of the criteria under step one-that they erred by 
essentially isolating evidence into each particular section or area. And by doing so, the Director did not 
collectively consider the evidence in the final merits when they determined he did not meet the regulatory 
requirements for extraordinary ability at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) (the definition of extraordinary ability) 
and (h)(3) (relating to sustained acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise). 
To address what we consider counsel's first possible argument, in theory, this is not accurate because 
even if USCIS determines a filing party's claims and evidence do not fit squarely within the regulatory 
requirements in step one (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)), the officer is still required to consider all of 
the claims and evidence in the final merits determination regardless of whether it was directly 
applicable to any of the criteria. The USCIS Policy Manual lays out this guidance: 
At this step, officers consider any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even if such 
evidence does not fit one of the above regulatory criteria or was not presented as 
comparable evidence. The officers consider all evidence in the totality. Some evidence 
may weigh more favorably on its own, while other evidence is more persuasive when 
viewed with other evidence. 
5 
See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(2). That is to say-in theory-ifUSeIS declines 
to grant an individual criterion we will still fully address the level of acclaim and whether that places 
a foreign national among those at the top of the field in a final merits analysis. But "in practice" in 
this case, we depart from the "in theory" situation because the Director did not discuss and consider 
all of the regulatory areas in their final merits determination. In the final merits, the Director did not 
evaluate the acclaim associated with the Petitioner's prizes or awards, contributions, or high salary or 
significantly high remuneration and as the users Policy Manual reflects, this is required. The 
Director should offer a more thorough final merits determination on remand. 
Moving to counsel's second possible argument within the blocked quote immediately above, we view 
the methodology the Director utilized to conduct the final merits determination to be one acceptable 
approach. And the Petitioner does not identify any source or authority that might establish the 
Director's method was incorrect. We therefore, will not address this issue further. 
D. The Final Merits' Topical Areas Did Not Include Sufficient Analysis 
Here, we close out the Petitioner's procedural allegation of error. The Petitioner claims that the final 
merits determination involves articulating a reason rationale to explain why the evidence presented in 
step one was not sufficiently persuasive to determine that the foreign national has sustained national or 
international acclaim and was among those at the very top of their field of endeavor. The Petitioner 
alleges the Director summarily dismissed evidence with only a conclusory statement that the record does 
not demonstrate that he has risen to the very top of the field or that he has sustained a claim that is 
sufficient level. The Petitioner advances this methodology is arbitrary and capricious, it is an abuse of 
discretion, and it deprives him of due process by not providing an explanation for how users reached 
its conclusion. 
Because some of the regulatory areas in the final merits determination contain more salient analysis than 
others, we will discuss each area in the denial to consider the Petitioner's allegations. We first reiterate 
that the decision's final merits determination did not include any discussion regarding prizes or awards, 
contributions, or high salary or significantly high remuneration and that was an error on the Director's 
part. Next, in reviewing the Director's discussion of the Petitioner's achievements in the areas of 
published material about him, his judging experience, and the display of his work, the Director 
discussed some of his accolades, but it is not apparent that they fully considered all of the evidence 
under each area. 
Then, for the final topical area, leading or critical role, we first revisit the basis for the Director's 
adverse determination for this subject. The Director acknowledged two of the Petitioner's claims but 
decided that his performance from 2011 to 2014 did not demonstrate the requisite level of sustained 
acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner begins claiming the Director did not use a proper concept of 
sustained and offers his own definition. Above we explained why the Petitioner's concept ofthis term 
is not controlling here. Additionally, the users Policy Manual not only offers a definition of that 
term, but more importantly the agency has explained how its officers are to apply it. The users 
Policy Manual states: 
6 
In determining whether the beneficiary has enjoyed "sustained" national or 
international acclaim, the officer should consider that such acclaim must be 
maintained.[] .... 
If a person was recognized for a particular achievement, the officer should determine 
whether the person continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of 
expertise since the person was originally afforded that recognition. A person may, for 
example, have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter. 
Id. at F.2(A)(l). It appears the Director followed the policy guidance when they determined the hiatus 
between 2014 and 2021 was a situation in which he "achieved national or international acclaim in the 
past but then failed to maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter." 
Second, the Petitioner claims that his exile from his home country should factor into the final merits 
analysis, but does not address why he was unable to serve in a similar role for other organizations or 
establishments outside of his country considering some of his other accolades ( display of his work) 
also occurred in multiple countries. 
And we address the Petitioner's final argument, the abuse of discretion allegation. Petitioner's counsel 
makes this contention without a citation to any authority as a basis for the claim. And it does not appear 
this allegation is even within our jurisdiction or authority to decide, which is established through DHS 
Delegation No. 0150.1 para. (2)(U) (Mar. 1, 2003) ( delegating appellate authority over those case types 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 103.l(f)(3)(iii) (2003)). As we state above, the standard of review we use in these 
administrative proceedings is de novo and we generally do not rule on an abuse of discretion standard. 1 
Abuse of discretion is a standard ofreview appellate courts use to review lower court decisions and is not 
applicable in these proceedings. Relating to administrative law, 5 U.S. Code § 706(2)(a) governs the 
abuse of discretion concept. That statute states that when a federal court is reviewing an administrative 
agency's decision, the court will set it aside when the decision was either "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse 
ofdiscretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law." But as one can see, this too relates to how federal 
courts review an administrative agency's decision and falls outside ofthis office's authority. Based on a 
lack ofjurisdiction on this topic, we will not consider these claims any further. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As we discuss above, the denial decision did not include all of the required types of analysis and we 
will remand the matter for a new decision. On remand, the Director should determine whether the 
Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and received recognition for achievements 
in his field, identifying him as one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
The Director should also consider any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even if it does not 
1 This is not to say that within our de novo review, we avoid any evaluating a denial decision's discretionary elements. 
We review questions oflaw, policy, fact, and discretion on a de novo basis. Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. at 537 n.2; Matter 
ofSimeio Solutions, LLC, 26 I&N Dec. 542, 542 n.l (AAO 2015). 
7 
fit one of the initial evidentiary criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. at F.2(8)(2). 
The petition's approval or denial depends on the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17887008 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cardiovascular diseases fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filin the Petitioner indicated he was workin as a cardiovascular diseases fellow at the 
University o . The Petitioner's curriculum 
vitae reflects that he also worked for .__ _____________ __, as an internal medicine 
resident between 2013 and 2016. In 2012, he received his bachelor of medicine and bajhelor of 
surgery degree from the I I Memorial Hospital and I _Medical 
College i~ I India. The Petitioner states that he is a specialist in cardiovascular disease and 
electrophysiology. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner has peer 
reviewed a manuscript for the Journal of General Internal Medicine. In addition, he authored 
scholarly articles in professional publications including Annals of Hepatology, Journal of Vector 
Borne Diseases, and Indian Heart Journal. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that he does not meet two 
additional criteria, related to original contributions in the field and leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, which we will discuss below. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to membership in associations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
finding that he does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, we consider this issue to be 
abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *L *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
the record, we conclude that the record does not support a determination that the Petitioner satisfies 
the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner claims that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field, as evidenced by his published research, citation record, letters from experts 
in the field, participation in professional conferences and symposia, and other evidence. On appeal, 
he emphasizes that the testimonial letters outline "the practical importance to the field of [his] past 
and ongoing research as well as his extraordinary clinical abilities." 3 
Here, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the letters are lacking detail explaining how 
his research findings have already been widely accepted and implemented in the field to the extent 
that they have been regarded as contributions of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, and indicate their publication in journals and presentation at 
conferences. 
For example.__ _______ __.Professor of Medicine, Cardiolo,t=g:2:Y.....:D~iv:..:i~s1~· o:'.=n'.:..:a~t::.=::::::::::;--------' I I describes the Petitioner's novel finding of a role played byl f tissue in the 
pathophysiology o~ I and his development of a new method called the l I I I to help with risk stratification for patients with the disorder. 
He indicates that the Petitioner's research paper about this work was one of only six papers discussing 
clinical conditions that modify the response to.__ ________ __. accepted for oral presentation 
at the American Heart Association Annual Scientific Sessions in 201 7, but he does not explain how 
the Petitioner's research findings went on to significantly impact or influence the field. As previously 
discussed, although funded and published work may be "original," the publication or presentation of 
one's work alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 
----------.1 Director of Interventional Echocardiography and Professor of Medicine at ~------_ ...... fdescribes the Petitioner's research findings as "extreme! im ortant" because 
they "provide an accurate means to measure the risk of recurrencl-'-'-'-'-'---~~---------' 
as well as "an objective measure to decide whether to perform.__ ___ __. at all." She does not 
explain, however, how his work in that area or hisl I method has been particularly influential 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
3 Although we focus on those letters highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal and do not discuss every letter submitted, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
or impactful in the field or explain how it has been applied by others, so as to constitute a contribution 
of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Professor of Medicine at states that 
~th_e_P_e-ti-ti_o_n-er_'_s_r_e_s-ea_r_c_h~proj ect inc=] India that screens in real-time for using I I technology has "demonstrated the reliability of .__ _________ ___.that could 
provide a distinct national benefit forl lof the United States .... " He describes the Petitioner 
as "one of the best residents we have trained" and asserts that this research project, "as well as others, 
have had a tremendous impact in international scientific and medical communities." However, he 
does not explain in detail how the Petitioner's work has been widely accepted or implemented in the 
field to support his conclusion that his work has "had tremendous impact in international scientific 
and medical communities," and he does not describe "others" of the Petitioner's research studies or 
speak to their originality or impact in the field. 
,..__ ________ .._Aa..=s=s1=· s"""tant Professor in Medicine, Cardiovascular Division atl.__ _____ __, 
'--------------~d~e=s=cr=i=b=es~an=-',additional research study performed b the Petitioner that 
demonstrated that.__ ________ __. was not a more accurate measure o '------.---- ...... 
in certain patients with acute cardiac arrest when compared with measurements taken by.___~ I I He speaks to the potential or future benefit of the Petitioner's work, stating that his 
research both in this area and in assessing the risk of recurrence ofi I 
"have produced important results that will aid physicians in the diagnosis of various heart ailments 
and will likely reduce the number of unnecessary invasive surgeries to prevent these various cardiac 
diseases," but his assertions do not demonstrate his research has already had an impact or influence 
commensurate with "major significance." 
Some of the testimonials detail the benefits patients received from the Petitioner's clinical skills in 
individual cases. For example, of the relates details 
of the Petitioner's performance of a bedsid L...,.,.....--r ___ .....__.. ......... 1iagnosis of a~-,-----,-,-----~ 
heart attack in a young patient requiring immediat '------~ He claims that the Petitioner saved 
the patient's life through his "accurate diagnosis and correct decision regarding the patient's 
treatment." I I chief of cardiovascular medicine a~ ,I 
provides that the Petitioner diagnosed and treated a rare form o in an elderly patient 
who presented with an.__ __________ ~ ______ __,and asserts that due to his 
"superior diagnostic ability" the patient avoided the cost and risk of surgical implantation of a 
permanent pacemaker. In addition, and em hasize the im ortance of the 
Petitioner's clinical experience in treating and employing 
advanced diagnostic techniques and interventional procedures such as ~---~~____,,..., cardiac 
catheterization, and insertion of transvenous pacemakers. Regardless of the field of endeavor, the plain 
language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an impact 
beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013). 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
4 
criterion.4 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att)· Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The Petitioner asserts that the above-referenced 
statements and those of others who have worked with him show that his "clinical abilities are far 
superior to others in the field." Here, the letters do not, for example, indicate that therapeutic 
treatments were being developed as a result of the Petitioner's research, that his research has already 
influenced medical practices, that his clinical or research work has already had a widespread impact, 
or that it substantially influenced the nature or direction of research being conducted in his area of 
specialty, and the record does not contain supporting evidence demonstrating this influence. The 
record contains ample evidence regarding the prevalence and seriousness of cardiac rhythm and 
cardiovascular disorders. While we recognize the importance of this field of medical research, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that his work has already 
had a major influence in his field such as, for example, by significantly influencing treatment practices, 
development of therapeutics, or the direction of farther research. 
Rather than providing specific examples of how the Petitioner's work has already substantially 
impacted his field, the submitted reference letters point to the Petitioner's anticipated publication of 
his research in respected journals and the presentation of his work at prestigious conferences as 
evidence that validates the importance of his work. In addition, on appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes 
that his published research has been cited over 60 times illustrating "the major contributions" he has 
made to the field. However, the Petitioner's publications, conference presentations, and citation 
history, considered independently and in context with the evidence as a whole, are insufficient to 
satisfy this criterion. The record provides evidence that the Petitioner has published his research and 
presented at professional conferences in his field. Such evidence verifies that the Petitioner has shared 
his original research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from others in 
the field is such that it supports a finding that his work rises to the level of "contributions of major 
significance" in the field. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer­
reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which 
cite the petitioner's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of their 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 5 
Regarding his citations, within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google 
Scholar reflecting 50 cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his three cited articles 
received 35 (Annals of Hepatology), 12 (Journal of Vector Borne Diseases), and 3 (Indian Heart 
Journal), citations, respectively. 6 Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that 
the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published 
articles that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself: sufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation 
numbers recorded in Google Scholar confirm that one or more of his publications has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with 
"contributions of major significance in the field." Although he has submitted evidence that his work 
has been cited by other researchers throughout the United States and internationally, he has not 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 Ibid. 
6 The Petitioner's remaining 10 articles garnered no citations. 
5 
sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced 
the field in a significant way. Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the 
form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to 
establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his 
field. Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he 
did not establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" 
as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of several research articles that cited 
to his work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 7 The submitted research articles 
reference the Petitioner's work as evidence ofrecent research, and, while the articles indicate that the 
authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well as the work of the other cited scientists, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views his published findings as original 
contributions of ma·or si nificance. For instance the Petitioner rovided a co of a 2014 article 
titled 
(Indian Journal of Pathology & Microbiology) that references the ~----------~ Petitioner's 2 09 article in the Annals of Hepatology. 8 However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers, or otherwise indicate that the 
Petitioner's article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. 
Instead, the article briefly references his work as one of many previous studies assessing the short­
term prognosis ofi ~ I The Petitioner has not shown that his published articles 
through citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the 
Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon by 
others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly ranked 
or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
8 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he played a leading and critical role as a cardiovascular diseases 
fellow at th~ I He also claims that he performs a leading and critical role in his 
current position as a clinical cardiac electrophysiology fellow at the I I 
I 1-9 As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or 
was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines 
whether the role is or was critical. 11 
Regarding his current position, he references a letter from ~----------' chief of 
electrophysiology at I I who confirms the Petitioner's pos1t10n as a clinical cardiac 
electrophysiology fellow.12 However, the record establishes that the Petitioner did not hold this 
position at the time the petition was filed in March 2019. In its response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided hisl rr Fellow Appointment Agreement which shows that 
his appointment was to begin in July 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Because this criterion requires evidence that he "has 
performed" in a leading or critical role in the past, and because the Petitioner must establish eligibility 
at the time of filing in accordance with 8 C .F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ), he cannot establish his eligibility under 
this criterion based on a position he held beginning in July 2019, even if we were to determine that it 
otherwise satisfies all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
Regardin~ts fonner nosition as a rrdiovascular diseases fellow, the Petitioner provided testimonial 
letters fro ~-------~chief of cardiovascular medicine at I I The 
letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's critical role. 13 In his first letter, dated July 2018,I I 
indicates he worked with the Petitioner for two years, and he provides that during that time the 
9 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on his role as an internal medicine resident at . I betwee_n 2013 ~nd 20) 6 On a:nneaJ t:he Petitioner flaims eligibility based on the roles 
ment10ned above and does not address his role w1thl----------------:i~· ---·------·---------
10 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
11 Id. 
12 Although the Petitioner's appellate brief asserts thatL Is letter is attached, the record in this case does not 
contain a copy of it. Rather, the Petitioner submitted!.__-------'~ letter in support of a subsequent employment­
based, second-preference petition he filed in December 2019. 
13 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
Petitioner evaluated patients with life threatening cardiac problems and performed diagnostic and 
therapeutic procedures, including echocardiography, coronary angiography, angioplasty, and 
pacemaker insertions, independently and under supervision. I I further emphasizes the 
Petitioner's work "is providing an enormously important national benefit to the United States" as there 
is a "great need for specialists" in the area of cardiology and the subspecialty of arrhythmia. Assuming 
the Petitioner's skills are unique, the classification sought was not designed merely to alleviate skill 
shortages in a given field. 
In an additional letter, dated March 2019,I I asserts that the Petitioner "has been a critical 
member of our cardiology team and an asset to our institution due to his one-of-a-kind clinical and 
research work" and claims "he is one of a very few number of physicians at our institution who have 
a wide range of experience in taking care of exceedingly complex patients who often come to the 
hospital with cardiac emergencies." I b statements establish that the Petitioner performed 
admirably in his role as a cardiovascular diseases fellow in his division. They do not offer probative 
details explaining how his fellowship role is a "leading" role based on his placement within the 
school's organizational structure or provide sufficient support for a finding that his role was of 
significant importance to the school's standing or success consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
Further, although he claims the Petitioner performed "one-of-a-kind" research work he does not discuss 
any of the Petitioner's research and publications or establish how his research activities within his 
division establish his leading role withi~ I 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22278354 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tattoo artist and painter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant tourist in 2013, and has remained in 
the United States since that time. She works as a tattoo artist atl in I 
California. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to published material, 
judging the work of others, and display of her work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also 
meets three other criteria, relating to memberships, contributions, and leading or critical roles. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has met at least three of the initial 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, rather than further discuss those threshold criteria, we 
will proceed directly to the final merits determination, in which we consider whether the record as a 
whole establishes that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, is one 
of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes 
are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established eligibility. 
The Director concluded that, although the Petitioner had satisfied the letter of three regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record documents "bursts of professional popularity and success"rather than 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
2 
sustained national or international acclaim. These "bursts" include a as a contestant on 
I I, a reality competition show and a wave of 
publicity that accompanied a mural the Petitioner painted in early 2020 I The Petitioner's recognition as a muralist appears to rest on that one painting, but the bulk of 
the record concerns her work as a tattoo artist. In the latter field, we conclude that the Petitioner has met 
her burden of proof to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim. 
The amount of media exposure that the Petitioner has received does not appear to be commonplace in her 
field. She has featured in several online articles listing the best tattoo artists. By themselves, such lists 
might not reflect recognition beyond a small number of bloggers. But the record shows that the 
Petitioner's Instagram account has a substantial audience of over 250,000 followers. From the available 
evidence in the record, this appears to be a significantly high number in her field of endeavor, and a 
relatively direct measurement of popular acclaim.2 The Petitioner may have gained many of these 
followers during one of her "bursts of professional popularity," but she has retained them even after she 
was eliminated from I I and the publicity from her mural subsided. 
The Petitioner's documented participation as a judge at the !Tattoo A1is Convention in 2021 
takes on added weight from evidence in the record that the convention was a major national event within 
the field. Furthermore, the judging was not in a small event independently held by an exhibitor; the 
invitation to serve as a judge came from the organizer of the convention. 
While some materials in the record are more persuasive and have more weight than others, the record as 
a whole is sufficientto demonstratethatthe Petition eris a popularand widelyrespectedartist. The record 
shows, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has achieved a level of recognition in her 
field consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Therefore, we will sustain the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
2 The number of social media followers in this case should not be construed as a universally applicable standard. The 
significance of this number of social media followers will vary from one field to another. A motion picture actor, for 
instance, could reasonably be expected to have substantially more followers than a research chemist. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22697983 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that he enjoyed 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the very small percentage of actors at the top 
of the field. We subsequently dismissed his appeal, as well as his previous motion to reconsider. The 
matter is now before us on a second motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 The Petitioner checked box l .a in Part2 ofForrnl-290B, indicating that he was filing an appeal. While his accompanying 
brief refers to this filing as bothanappealanda motion, we will consider this as a motion to reconsider. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy to the prior decision. The 
requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The Director concluded in his most recent decision in this matter that while the Petitioner met three of 
the evidentiary criteria, he did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim 
through extensive documentation, and that he was among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
On appeal, we reached the same conclusion, while also refuting the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian as requiring a final merits 
determination. In our previous motion decision, we explained again that case law and official USCIS 
policy supported the Director's and our interpretation of Kazarian, and explained why the record does 
not support the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats his previous arguments regarding the requirement of a final merits 
determination, and does not challenge our previous conclusions regarding the merits of his petition. 
As we stated in our two most recent decisions, the Petitioner's reasoning ignores plain language in the 
Kazarian decision and is not supported by relevant caselaw. Further, the publicly available USCIS 
Policy Manual plainly states that if an individual shows that they either meet three of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or have a one-time achievement, they must then establish that they 
possess the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and are one of the small percentage at 
2 
the top of their field. 2 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our previous motion 
decision was based upon an incorrect application oflaw or policy. 
ORDER: The motion is dismissed. 
2 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19713820 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alternative, met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed 
the Petitioner's appeal, and three subsequent combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits new evidence regarding his recent activities and his social media presence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form T-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening the 
proceeding, or established that our decision to dismiss his third motion to reopen and reconsider was 
based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner holds a black belt in the I style 
of karate, having competed at various levels since 2002. The Petitioner joinedl I national 
karate team in 2012, and claimed to still be a member of that team in 2018 although he had been in 
the United States since November 2017 as a B-1 visitor. He is vice president and head coach at I !Karate Academy in I California. 
2 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that he met none of those criteria. After a de nova review of the 
record, we reached the same conclusions and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2019. 
The Petitioner then filed three combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. We dismissed these 
combined motions, in April 2020, November 2020, and May 2021, respectively. The matter is now 
before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his 
previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an inconect application of law or 
users policy and was inconectatthe time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5)(a)(3). 
The statement accompanying the Petitioner's latest motion does not meet this requirement. The 
Petitioner does not identify any inconect application of law or users policy in our May 2021 
decision, or make any specific claim that our May 2021 decision was inconect based on the evidence 
in the record at the time of that decision. Instead, the Petitioner describes newly submitted evidence. 
The new evidence submitted on motion was not in the record for us to consider at the time of the 
previous decision. We consider this new evidence in the context of a motion to reopen, below. 
The motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and therefore the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires us to dismiss the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must establish new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Nevertheless,noteverynew 
fact warrants reopening of the proceeding. The Petitioner must establish that he meets all eligibility 
requirements as of the date of filing, and continuing through the adjudication of the petition. 8 C.F.R 
§ 102.3(b )(1 ). Therefore, consistent with this proceeding, the Petitioner's new evidence must establish 
that he was eligible for the classification sought when he filed the petition in May 2018, and remains 
eligible now. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: 
In support of the Motion I am submitting evidence of my status as a verified person on 
the Facebook and the documentation from the Face book showing the criteria used to 
select and/or identify the individual as a "verified person." I am also submitting 
evidence of the number of followers I have on the Face book and Instagram. 
Previous decisions had not discussed the Petitioner's Facebook page, and the Petitioner does not 
explain why his "verified" status establishes that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. A 
submitted printout from Face book indicates that a verified page must "[r]epresent a well-known, often 
3 
searched person, brand or entity." The printout does not elaborate as to the minimum requirements to 
meet these vague and general standards. 
The Petitioner establishes how many followers he has on Facebook and Instagram, but he does not 
provide any context for those numbers. For instance, he does not provide figures for other athletes in 
his sp01i, to show that he has significantly more followers than most others in his field. With no basis 
for comparison, the figures provided by the Petitioner do not establish extraordinary ability. 
The printouts also do not show when Face book awarded the verification badge to the Petitioner's page. 
Therefore, even if the Petitioner had shown the badge to be strong evidence of eligibility, he has not 
demonstrated that his page had such a badge when he filed the petition in May 2018. Likewise, the 
Petitioner does not show how many followers he had at the time of filing. 
Because the Petitioner has not established the relevance of the Face book verification badge and social 
media printouts, he has not shown that their submission shows proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
The Petitioner also states: 
I am also submitting documentation to show that my previous achievements as a 
professional athlete earned me and continue to earn the reputation of the professional 
athlete and now a coach and that my expertise in the field and performance techniques 
are well-recognized here in the United States. 
The Petitioner does not further elaborate as to the nature of this documentation or how it establishes 
his eligibility. Apart from Face book printouts, the new materials on appeal consist of the following: 
• Two letters, fromD 2021, describinJ the Petitioner's s activities as a coach and competitor at 
al I championship inl 2021 and his subsequent work with some of the 
athletes there; 
• Fourteen undated photographs of the Petitioner, sometimes alone and sometimes with other 
athletes, some of whom appear to be students of the karate academy where he now works; 
• A certificate from the U.S. Center for Safesport, indicating that the Petitioner completed a 
training program in June 2021; and 
• Three social media posts from showing photographs from the Petitioner's visit 
tol I 
One of the new letters is from the founder and president of the I Karate Academy, where 
the Petitioner is vice president and head coach. The letter describes events that took place after the 
petition's filing date in May 2018; the Academy was founded in 2019. The other new letter is from 
an individual who does not state any title, but who indicates that he is a franchisee ofl I land who recruited the Petitioner to act as head coach at the regional event in __ 
mentioned above. The letter indicated that the Petitioner pursued Safesp01i certification in order to 
coach "5 of [the writer's] daughters in the I National Championships and team trials." 
4 
As explained above, events that took place after May 2018 cannot establish that the Petitioner was 
eligible when he filed the petition. Because the Petitioner has not shown that he was eligible at the 
time of filing, consideration of newer evidence regarding his activities in 2021, such as his Safesport 
training, cannot suffice to show eligibility. The Petitioner has also not shown that his continued 
involvement in regional-level competitions establishes that he meets the very high eligibility 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The new evidence does not establish relevant new facts, and therefore does not constitute proper cause 
for reopening the proceeding. We will dismiss the motion to reopen because it does not meet the 
requirements for such a motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2023 In Re: 28111586 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner specializes in photographing babies and seeks classification under the employment­
based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim and, through extensive documentation , recognition of their 
achievements in their fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that she also meets two additional requirements: receipt of internationally recognized prizes 
or awards in the field; and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases . 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has established her receipt of internationally recognized awards in the 
field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these initial evidentiary requirements, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements that rank a noncitizen among 
the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a Russian native and citizen, is a professional photographer specializing in newborns. 
She was inspired by Australian photographer Anne Geddes, whose pictures of babies fascinated her 
as a child. She attended the International Institute of Advertising inl Iand, after gaining 
experience in the fashion industry, opened her own modeling agency. She realized her childhood 
dream of photographing newborns after completing photography workshops, classes about children, 
and a course in relationship psychology. In the United States, she seeks to continue her work as a 
newborn photographer. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Thus, to initially qualify for the requested immigrant visa category before a 
final merits determination, she must satisfy at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary criteria. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If these evidentiary standards "do not readily apply" to her occupation, 
she may submit "comparable evidence." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner met two initial evidentiary criteria: 
published material about her relating to her work in the field; and evidence of her participation as a 
judge of others' work in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she also demonstrated her receipt of internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field and submitted evidence of her work's display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i), (vii). 
A. Receipt of Internationally Recognized Prizes or A wards 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). When assessing whether a petitioner meets this criterion, USCIS first determines 
whether they received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2) App'x, 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Agency then examines whether their rewards were "in the field 
of endeavor" and "nationally or internationally recognized." Id. Considerations include: the criteria 
used to grant the awards or prizes; their national or international significance; the number ofrecipients; 
and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of several awards she received at photography competitions. The 
Director, however, found that most of the events occurred multiple times a year, suggesting that "the 
petitioner's awards are not uncommon in her field." The Director also found insufficient evidence of 
media coverage showing national or international recognition of her awards. The Director noted the 
2 
Petitioner's receipt of an honorable mention citation at the 2021 International Photography Awards 
(IPA). But the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish the number of honorable mention 
recipients or the category and competition level in which she received recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence. She states her submission 
of proof of two honorable mention citations at the 2021 IP A and the prizes' categories, competition 
levels, and international media coverage. The Petitioner also contends that she received prizes -
including the IP A awards -in two annual competitions. Although events in which she won other 
awards occurred more frequently, she submitted evidence that internationally recognized judges 
awarded the prizes and that hundreds of photographers from around the world competed for them. 
As the Petitioner argues, the record shows her receipt of two honorable mention citations at the 2021 
IPA. For both prizes, the category was 'I I' and the competition level was 
"Professional." The Petitioner also submitted evidence ofIPA media coverage, including a list of the 
competition's global corporate partners and coverage examples from newspapers, magazines, and 
other media around the world. The competition's website indicates that, in the Petitioner's category 
and level in 2021, the judges issued several honorable mention awards. See IP A, "Honorable 
Mentions," https: //photoawards. com/winner/hmention. php? compN ame= IP A+ 2021. 
The Petitioner did not win any of the top three awards in her category and level at the 2021 IPA. But, 
based on her two IP A honorable mention awards in the same year for two separate photos, a 
preponderance of the evidence demonstrates her receipt of internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in her field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)((i). We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
contrary finding. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has met the 
requisite three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant 
visa category. We therefore need not consider whether she also demonstrated her work's display at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of her field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Director did not reach that 
finding, and we decline to make the determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the 
matter. On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety 
to make a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2024 In Re: 33168811 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. Although the Director concluded 
that the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Director determined that , in the alternative , the record satisfies 
at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. However , the Director ultimately concluded that the 
record does not establish sustained national or international acclaim and that the Petitioner is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The Director further concluded that the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner would be coming to the United States to continue work in 
the area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ non citizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the IO categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Additionally, if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's 
occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement ofa major, internationally recognized award; however, the Director determined that, 
in the alternative, the record satisfies at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that the record satisfies the plain language of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(vi). However, the Director concluded, upon examining the evidence presented in 
its entirety for the final merits determination addressed in Kazarian, that the record does not show 
sustained national or international acclaim or that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
More specifically, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner participated in the "routine process 
in the field" ofpeer-review. However, the Director noted that the record establishes that the Petitioner 
peer-reviewed 12 papers for scholarly journals between 2007-15, among other invitations to 
participate, which neither "exceeds that of other researchers nor indicates [he is] at the very top of 
[his] field with sustained acclaim." Moreover, the Director observed that the record does not indicate 
the Petitioner has participated in peer review since April 2015, "which establishes an inconsistent (and 
infrequent) record ofreviewing peer research." 
The Director also acknowledged that the Petitioner published two scholarly papers in 2007 and 20 I0, 
respectively. However, the Director found that the record does not establish "how such production is 
indicative of someone who is at the very top of the mechanical engineering field with sustained 
acclaim." The Director acknowledged the citation record for the Petitioner's two scholarly 
2 
publications, describing the citation record for the 2007 publication as "majorly significant." 
However, the Director juxtaposed the Petitioner's citation records with those at the very top of their 
field, noting that those at the very top oftheir field would have received "tens of thousands ofcitations 
(in total)" more than the Petitioner's approximately 2,400 total citations. The Director also noted that 
those at the very top of their field would have "published hundreds of research papers" compared to 
the Petitioner's two publications, and that several of those hundreds of publications would have 
received thousands of citations apiece. The Director further noted that the Petitioner's publication 
history ceased in 2010, which does not demonstrate sustained acclaim as a researcher thereafter. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that his "field is Nanofluid and not Mechanical Engineering so 
he should be considered as whether he has risen at the top in field of N anofluid and not at the top in 
field of Mechanical Engineering [sic]." He reiterates information already in the record regarding his 
participation as a peer reviewer of scholarly articles between 2007-15, and regarding his scholarly 
publications dated 2007 and 2010. He characterizes his 2007 publication as a "fundamental paper ... 
written once in a decade," describing his 2010 publication as an "auxiliary paper and hence 
comparatively less citations." He juxtaposes "[p]]ublishing a landmark paper with 2000 citations" with 
"someone who has published 200 papers with 10 citations each making total citations to 2000." The 
Petitioner also reasserts that he has sustained the acclaim he garnered in 2007 through 2024, noting 
that he received-but he declined-invitations to peer-review others' articles a total of five times 
between 2016-2019 as evidence of his continuing acclaim. He also implies on appeal that the record 
indicates he is like the William Shakespeare, Michael Jackson, or U sain Bolt of mechanical 
engineering researchers who specialize in nanofluid. 
We first address the Petitioner's characterization of his field as nano fluid engineering, as opposed to 
mechanical engineering. We note that, on the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the 
Petitioner identified his occupation as "Business Relationship Manager," with the nontechnical job 
description of"NIA." Thus, the Petitioner's own stated occupation appears unrelated to both nano fluid 
engineering and mechanical engineering. 
Even if the Petitioner had sufficiently established that his field is nanofluid engineering-which he 
did not-neither the number of scholarly research articles the Petitioner has published nor the number 
of citations-whether individually or in total-his articles have received indicate that the Petitioner is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, as contemplated by Kazarian. 
The Petitioner correctly distinguishes between one publication with 2,000 citations and 200 
publications with 10 citations apiece; however, without more, neither of those examples indicate an 
individual among the small percentage at the very top of a particular field of endeavor. The record 
does not establish how the Petitioner's two publications, with total citations of approximately 2,400, 
demonstrate that he is among the very top of the field of endeavor, compared to others in the field of 
nanofluid engineering research who have substantially more papers published, citations per 
publication, and total citations. More specifically, the record does not establish what the citation rate 
of a top nanofluid engineering researcher is through objective evidence. The Petitioner bears the 
burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Thus, although the Petitioner asserts that he is among the small 
percentage at the top of nano fluid engineering researchers, he does not appear to be at the top of the 
field of such researchers, based on his relative publication rates and citations. 
3 
Even if the Petitioner's two scholarly research publications showed that the Petitioner is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, which they do not, they would not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner sustained such acclaim. Black's Law Dictionary defines "sustain" as 
"to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time" or "to persist in making (an effort) over 
a long period of time." Sustain, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019). To use the Petitioner's 
example of fundamental and auxiliary papers, the Petitioner has published one fundamental paper and 
one auxiliary paper, without publishing any additional papers. Because the Petitioner has not 
published any additional papers-whether fundamental or auxiliary-the record does not establish 
how he may have sustained any acclaim he accrued in 2007 and 2010 beyond that limited period of 
time by virtue of subsequent publications. 
Next, the Petitioner's participation as a peer reviewer of others' scholarly articles between 2007-15, 
at an average rate of less than two articles per year during that period does not indicate that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, as contemplated by 
Kazarian. As the Director noted, participating as a peer reviewer of others' scholarly articles is "a 
routine process in the field." Participating as a peer reviewer ofothers' scholarly articles at an average 
rate of less than two articles per year between 2007-15 satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); however, that rate of participation does not establish how the Petitioner 
may be among the very top of the field of endeavor, beyond merely participating in a routine process. 
Even if the Petitioner's participation as a peer reviewer of others' scholarly articles between 2007-15 
showed that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field ofendeavor during 
that period, which it did not, the record does not establish the Petitioner has participated as a peer 
reviewer since 2015, which does not support the Petitioner's assertion that he has sustained acclaim 
as a peer reviewer thereafter. Although the record establishes that the Petitioner was invited to review 
five additional articles between 2016-19, the record does not establish that the Petitioner actually 
reviewed those articles. Moreover, as the record does not indicate that the Petitioner has been invited 
to review any articles after the 2019 invitations, whatever acclaim he may have accrued as a peer 
reviewer, or a peer reviewer invitee, appears to have ceased many years before he filed the Form I-140 
in 2024. 
We note that the Petitioner's implication that he is like the William Shakespeare, Michael Jackson, or 
Usain Bolt of mechanical engineering researchers who specialize in nanofluid is unpersuasive. The 
Petitioner's two published scholarly articles with a total citation number of approximately 2,400, and 
his participation as a peer reviewer of 12 scholarly articles do not correspond to the sustained acclaim 
of William Shakespeare, Michael Jackson, and U sain Bolt as a result of their contributions to their 
respective fields. 
Because the totality ofthe material provided does not show sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrate that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, the Petitioner is not eligible for the requested classification. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). We reserve our opinion 
regarding whether the record establishes the Petitioner would be corning to the United States to 
continue work in the area of expertise. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the 
ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence 
meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, the 
totality of the record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2024 In Re: 33902652 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a water polo player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner had received either a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alterative, that he met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria required for eligibility. The 
matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act if they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; they seek to enter 
the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and their entry into the 
United States will substantially benefit the country. 
The implementing regulations provide that a petitioner may establish prima facie eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability either by demonstrating receipt of a one-time achievement of a 
major internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by satisfying at least three of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria provided at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Where a petitioner meets these 
initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context ofa final merits determination); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Here, the Petitioner claimed eligibility based on a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
and further asserted that he could satisfy four of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, he claimed eligibility under the criteria related to lesser nationally or international 
recognized awards, memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published 
materials in major trade publications or other major media, and performance in a leading or critical 
role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and 
(viii). The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate this receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award and further determined that he met none of the four claimed 
evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision disregards most of the evidence 
submitted in support of the petition and in response to a request for evidence (RFE) and therefore does 
not explain why the evidence was deemed insufficient to establish his eligibility for the requested 
classification. The Petitioner also states that he submitted substantially similar evidence in support of 
a prior petition requesting the same immigrant classification and emphasizes that U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) previously determined that he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). 1 
The record supports the Petitioner's claims. Upon review, for the reasons discussed below, we 
conclude that the Director's decision did not adequately analyze the evidence provided and did not 
fully explain the reasons the petition was denied. 
First, we note that although the Petitioner submitted a response to the Director's RFE and the Director 
acknowledged its receipt, the portions ofthe decision analyzing the claimed evidentiary criteria do not 
mention or analyze any of the additional evidence or arguments that were included in the Petitioner's 
RFE response. 
Further, other than including a partial list of awards the Petitioner submitted for consideration under 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the decision contains few references to specific evidence the 
Petitioner provided with the initial filing. For example, in evaluating whether the Petitioner 
documented his membership in an association that requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Director's discussion was limited to "a letter ... indicating that 
the petitioner is a member of Collegiate Water Polo Association [ CWP A]." A review of the record 
reflects that the Petitioner claimed membership on the I Iwater polo team, the 
I !water polo team, and the I 
I lteam in men's water polo. The decision does not reflect that any of 
this evidence was considered by the Director. Further, the Petitioner clarified in response to the RFE 
1 In support ofhis claim, the Petitioner submits a copy ofthe Director's decision dated August 9, 2022, relating to his Form 
1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, with receipt number 
2 
that he did not claim eligibility under this criterion based on membership in the CWP A, which is the 
NCAA division in which his collegiate water polo team competed. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires evidence of published materials about the 
individual in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In evaluating the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, the Director stated that the record contains "numerous articles" 
and concluded without further comment that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that any of the 
submitted published materials were published in major media. However, they did not acknowledge 
the Petitioner's submission of an article published in Sports Illustrated, and it is unclear whether this 
evidence was considered. 
The Director's decision includes a similarly conclusory determination with respect to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence that the Petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. The Director did not 
acknowledge the specific claims articulated by the Petitioner or much of the evidence he submitted in 
support ofthis claim, other than generally noting that he provided "several letters ofrecommendation." 
Overall, the Director's decision did not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted with specificity 
and improperly disregarded evidence without proper explanation. An officer's written decision must 
explain the specific reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation 
should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us 
an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g. Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for the reasons 
discussed, due to the Director's conclusory determinations and failure to address the Petitioner's RFE 
response, the Petitioner did not receive a fair opportunity to challenge the denial. Accordingly, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter to the Director. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief and submission on appeal, which further addresses the previously 
submitted evidence and USCIS' own previous determination that the Petitioner established eligibility 
under two criteria. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review, the Director determines the Petitioner 
received a major internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record and evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage oat the very top of his field, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2024 In Re: 32942380 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a delivery practice manager in data analytics, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a delivery practice manager for __________ a multi-billion-dollar 
information technology company that provides cloud computing products and services. Her position 
entails the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning to interpret large quantities of data to 
identify patterns that companies use for data analysis, as well as holding responsibility for technical 
guidance and the ultimate delivery of projects. The Petitioner intends to continue her work in data 
analytics in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the criteria she claimed to have satisfied: 
her participation as a judge of the work of others within her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The 
record supports that determination. However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish 
that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (vi), (viii), or (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vi), (viii), and (ix), and she contends 
that the Director incorrectly evaluated supporting evidence. Upon review, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter ofM­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petititioner asserts that she has performed in leading and critical roles for establishments that have 
distinguished reputations, including,__ _____ The record demonstrates that these are multi-
billion-dollar companies in the fields of cloud computing and energy production, respectively. While 
the Director did not dispute the reputations of these businesses, they determined that the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner's role "has been leading or critical to as a whole, beyond the 
2 
I organization's need for skillful, highly competent" data practice managers, and that her work "on 
various projects is inherent to her occupation." We note that, in evaluating whether an individual has 
performed in a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a 
leader within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 1 
Here, the Petitioner has submitted documentation of an award she received for her leadership on an 
effort to provide a tailored list ofofferings for the sales team to present to public sector customers 
during the upcoming year. The Petitioner also submitted documentation describing her critical role in 
managing a portfolio of $50 million for a division of that delivers data analytics solutions to 
public sector clients, primarily for state and local governments and higher education institutions. She 
also submitted evidence concerning various projects in which she was involved, including media 
coverage of those projects, and several detailed letters of support from superiors and colleagues 
discussing both her leading and critical roles in projects for and for previous employers. For 
example, at I I the Petitioner led a team on a ninety-seven-million-dollar project to expand the 
lonline learning programs to working adults, military members, and 
students from underserved counties in the state. As another example, she served as I Itechnical 
leader for a project involving the movement of the data to the 
cloud. And while employed atl Ishe led the migration process of critical data and applications 
to a cloud-based platform, the design of which minimized operational disruptions and resulted in 
significant cost savings and improved efficiency within the organization. We conclude that the 
Petitioner has submitted sufficient evidence that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salaryor other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission offinancial documents 
and webpages showing salaries for data practice managers employed by I I The Director 
determined that the Petitioner's earnings of approximately $254,000 in 2022 were not higher than the 
highest reported salary for others in her field atl I which was approximately $288,000. We note 
that the plain language of the criterion does not limit an individual's relative salary or remuneration to 
others' earnings from a particular employer but, instead, refers only to the earnings of others within 
the individual's field. The Petitioner initially submitted documentation showing salary ranges for 
other big data analysts working for several companies, including IBM and Apple, which offered the 
highest salaries at $152,000 and $189,000 per year, respectively-a difference of about $102,000 and 
$65,000 from her 2022 earnings. In addition, on appeal, the Petitioner points to her receipt ofrestricted 
stock units, which includes shares she received in 2021 valued at approximately $33,152 and stock in 
2023 valued at approximately $75,599. The Petitioner also submitted wage information from 
O*NET-the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupation Information Network-which demonstrates 
that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation 
1 See generally https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
to others in the field. Based on a preponderance of the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
met the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the 
requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
(viii), and (ix). We therefore need not consider whether she met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) or (vi). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21694953 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 20, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the 
Director's decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a musician who has worked as a singer, conductor, and 
composer. He indicates that he seeks to work as an independent choral or orchestral conductor in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet nine of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), lesser nationally or international recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), published materials in professional or trade publications or major media; 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications or other media; 
• (vii), display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, related to published materials at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets at least three of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is otherwise qualified for the classification sought. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards when evaluating 
two of the claimed criteria and failed to consider relevant evidence submitted with respect to a third 
2 
criterion. Based on these deficiencies, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for entry of a new decision. 
The first step of the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to 
determining whether the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). This 
limited determination does not require an assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a 
petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. Rather, the question of whether a petitioner is 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys 
sustained national or international acclaim should only be addressed in the second step of the analysis 
(final merits determination). 
Here, the Director's decision reflects that he erroneously imposed qualitative requirements to the first 
step of the evidentiary review process with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vii). The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence that the individual has participated 
as the judge of the work of others in the same field or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. While the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had documented his 
participation as a judge of the work of others, he determined that the evidence did not satisfy the plain 
language of this criterion because he had judged "students, adult amateurs or early career 
professionals" and therefore had not judged "peers," a requirement that does not appear in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director also questioned whether the evidence could 
establish that "the petitioner's 'achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise,"' an 
analysis that must be made in a final merits determination, but one that is not appropriate in evaluating 
whether the evidence submitted objectively satisfies the regulatory criterion. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
Similarly, the Director inappropriately imposed requirements when evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires "evidence of the display of the [individual's] work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases." The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
related to his public performances as a vocalist and conductor but stated: 
Music festivals and theatres generally are not artistic exhibitions designed to showcase a 
single individual's work in the same sense that a painter or sculptor displays his work in a 
gallery or museum. Also, the fact that a musical artist has displayed his work does not 
necessarily establish extraordinary ability. The artist must also demonstrate the exhibition 
or showcase was at a venue of a sufficient level to evidence acclaim and that the exhibited 
works placement at such an exhibition or exhibition was itself of such significance. While 
a musical artist could possibly claim this criterion, it is more likely that an artist who is at 
the top of his field would be able to claim this success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
We note that the plain language of this regulation does not exclude performing artists or limit its 
application solely to visual artists (such as painters or sculptors). Further, as discussed above, when 
determining whether a petitioner has submitted evidence that satisfies a given criterion, it is 
inappropriate to impose a requirement that the evidence also demonstrate the person's acclaim or 
establish his or her extraordinary ability. Finally, the fact that the Director believes that the Petitioner, 
as a performing artist, should be able to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(x) is irrelevant to 
3 
an analysis of the evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Director's evaluation of 
this criterion must be based on the evidence the Petitioner submitted, rather than on assumptions about 
the Petitioner's failure to address a different criterion. On remand, the Director is instructed to re­
evaluate the submitted evidence to determine whether it satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Finally, we note that the Director's discussion of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) contains few 
references to the Petitioner's evidence. In support of his claim that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards or prizes, the Petitioner submitted evidence related to twelve 
awards, some of them individual awards, and some for which he was recognized as a conductor or co­
conductor of a group. In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director 
specifically addressed only one of these awards, and therefore did not provide sufficient support for 
his conclusion that none of the awards could satisfy the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, with respect to the three criteria 
discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he was 
not required to conduct a final merits determination of whether the Petitioner has established that he 
possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 20, 2024 In Re: 33254580 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dentist/orthodontist, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). Successful 
petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner neither demonstrated her intent to continue working in her field in the United States nor met 
any of ten initial evidentiary requirements for establishing extraordinary ability. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence and misunderstood regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Petitioner has met two of the initial evidentiary criteria for extraordinary 
ability -one less than required for a final merits decision. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" 
or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a 
petitioner meets either standard, USCIS must then make a final merits determination as to whether the 
record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that, in 2013, the Petitioner, a Kyrgyzstani native and Russian citizen, earned a 
doctoral degree in public health and healthcare from a Russian medical university. She later opened 
a small, dental office in Russia. In 2017, she expanded the business and began focusing on 
neuromuscular dentistry. From 2019 to 2022, she served as the clinic's chief physician. Now in the 
United States, the Petitioner states that she seeks to continue working in the dentistry/orthodontics 
field at an international postgraduate center. 
A. Extraordinary Ability 
The record does not establish -nor does the Petitioner claim -her receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary requirements. On appeal, 
she contends that she submitted evidence of: 
• Her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards in her field; 
• Her membership in associations in her field that require outstanding achievements; 
• Published material about her in her field; 
• Her original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• Her authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• Her performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii). 2 
1. Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [ noncitizen ]'s receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 The Petitioner previously asserted her satisfaction of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), requiring "[e ]vidence of the display of 
the [noncitizen]'s work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases." On appeal, she does not claim to meet the 
requirement. We will therefore treat the issue as "waived." See, e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) ( citation omitted). 
2 
I When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner -as opposed, for 
example, to their employer -received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then determines whether an award has national or international recognition 
and rewards excellence in the field of endeavor. Id. Relevant considerations include: criteria used to 
grant awards; the awards' national or international significance; the number of awardees; and any 
limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her receipt of national awards, including: the "Dentist of the 
Year" I Iaward in 2022; the "Best Chief of the Year" award from the I 
in 2021; and "Leader of the Year" Annual Award in 2021. She also provided proof 
of her receipt of international awards in 2022. These include a second-degree prize for "Physician 
Innovator of the Year" in an international competition and a third-degree prize 
for "Debut of the Year" in an international.__ _____ contest. 3 
The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate 
national or international recognition of these awards. The Petitioner submitted a copy of an Internet 
article about the 2022 I Iawards. But evidence of this and her other national awards do 
not indicate their number of awardees or their national or international significance. Similarly, 
evidence of the Petitioner's international awards do not indicate their significance. See Krasniqi v. 
Dibbins, 558 F.Supp.3d 168, 182 (D.N.J. 2021) (quoting Visincaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp.3d 126, 136 
(D.D.C. 2013)) ("[E]vidence solely from the awarding organization itself may be insufficient ifit does 
not show 'how a larger audience viewed [the] awards."') 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: "The significance of these awards is evident from the reputation of 
the organizations granting them, the rigorous selection processes involved, and the recognition they 
receive within the field of Dentistry and Orthodontics." The Petitioner, however, does not point to 
evidence of the organizations' reputations or the awards' recognition in the dentistry/orthodontics 
field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that her awards have national or international recognition. We 
will therefore affirm the Director's finding on this evidentiary criterion. 
2. Membership in Associations 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [noncitizen]'s membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). If an association has multiple levels of membership, a petitioner must show that, to 
obtain their membership level, recognized national or international experts judged them to have made 
outstanding achievements in their field. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
3 In support of this and the other challenged evidentiary criteria, the Petitioner also submits an expert opinion letter from a 
U.S. retired endodontics professor. For the same reasons stated in this decision, the record does not support the expe1t's 
favorable conclusions regarding this and the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (viii). See Matter of 
Caron Int'l. Inc., 19 l&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) (allowing the immigration service to reject or afford lesser 
evidentiary weight to expe1t testimony that conflicts with other infmmation "or is in any way questionable"). 
3 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in the International College of 
Craniomandibular Orthopedics (ICCMO) and the Professional Society of Orthodontists ofRussia. As 
the Director found, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that these organizations require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in her field. 
The Petitioner demonstrated that she has "fellowship" status in the ICCMO. The organization's 
bylaws state that, to obtain fellowship, a candidate must: submit original research or a series of 
documented case histories; and complete a written examination, continue education, publish work, or 
teach in the field. The Petitioner argues that, contrary to the Director's finding, ICCMO fellowship 
requires more than completion of a certain level of education or work experience. But the record falls 
short of showing that fellowship in the organization requires "outstanding achievements." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); see also Braga v. Poulos, No. CV06-5105, 2007 WL 9229758, *5 (C.D. 
Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 Fed.App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (requiring a petitioner to submit evidence 
that any ofthe Jiu-Jitsu organizations to which he belonged required outstanding achievements oftheir 
members). 
As proof of her membership in the Russian orthodontists society, the Petitioner provided letters from 
the society's president. One letter states that, besides a dentistry diploma, a society member must have 
a license to practice orthodontics and "an outstanding record of achievement in the field, such as 
publications, teaching, participation in research, attendance at professional conferences, etc." The 
society's president also stated that nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field assess 
applicants' eligibility for membership. 
The record, however, does not support the society president's stated membership criteria. The 
president's letter states the Petitioner's membership in the society since September 2006. The record, 
however, indicates that she did not obtain an orthodontics license until June 2008. The discrepancy 
casts doubt on the president's stated membership criteria. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 
(BIA 1988) (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies). Also, the record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -
any outstanding achievements in her field by September 2006. For this additional reason, the record 
casts doubt that the society requires outstanding achievements of its members. Id. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated her membership in associations in the field that require 
outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
We will therefore affirm the Director's finding regarding this evidentiary criterion. 
3. Published Materials About the Petitioner 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[p ]ublished material about [themselves] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [their] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "Such evidence shall include the title, 
date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether the published material relates to 
a petitioner and their specific work in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ). 
Evidence may include copies of print or on line newspaper or magazine articles, popular or academic 
4 
journal articles, books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio 
or video coverage of a petitioner and their work. Id. The Agency then determines whether the 
publication qualifies as a professional, major trade, or major media publication. Id. When evaluating 
professional, major trade, or major media, USCIS must examine the evidence. Relevant factors 
include: for professional and major trade publications, the intended audience; and, for major trade 
publications and other major media, the relative circulation, readership, or viewership. Id. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of 11 published materials about her in Russia. Most are online 
articles in which she answers questions about maladies and treatments in her field. 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the online articles appeared in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner provided data estimating the Internet domain 
traffic or visits to the sites. But the Director stated that the data do not "determine a publication's 
circulation, readership and/or viewership" or compare their metrics to other publications. 
The Petitioner, however, provided data from a reputable web analytics company indicating that two 
of the articles about her appeared among the top-ranked news and media sites in Russia. Thus, we 
find that the Petitioner submitted published material about her in major media relating to her work in 
her field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
4. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
This criterion requires "[e ]vidence of the [ noncitizen] 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
USCIS first determines whether a petitioner made original contributions in the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then determines whether the original contributions 
are of major significance to the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted 11 letters in support of her claimed original contributions of major 
significance. The Director did not consider five of the letters, finding that they lacked "contact 
information in accordance with [8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l)] and therefore cannot be considered 
probative." 
The cited regulation, however, applies to "[e]vidence relating to qualifying experience or training." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l). The Petitioner used the letters as evidence of original contributions of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner's evidence focuses on two contributions to her field: her modifications to orthodontic 
treatment devices called advanced lightwire functionals (ALF); and her research on pre-surgical 
protocols for implant and other patients. 
The president of a company that manufactures ALF devices stated that, since 2015, the business has 
made devices based on the Petitioner's recommended changes. The company president stated that, in 
2020, doctors whose patients used the modified devices reported that they fit patients better and 
improved results. The company president stated: "Our collaboration proves that [the Petitioner] has 
5 
a certain level of knowledge in dentistry and the necessary specialization, since the use of ALF devices 
is the highest level ofknowledge in dentistry and ortho-cranial orthodontics." The dentist who trained 
the Petitioner in neuromuscular dentistry called her ALF modifications "an invaluable contribution." 
A dental surgeon who also lectures at a Russian university stated: "The [Petitioner]'s proposals for 
changes to the ALF apparatus have made a significant contribution to international practical dentistry." 
As the Director found, however, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner's ALF 
modifications have "major significance" in the dentistry/orthodontics field. The president of the 
company that manufactures the devices stated that only "[ a ]pproximately 1 [to] 5% of dentists around 
the world use osteopathic methods for comprehensive patient rehabilitation." The record does not 
indicate how many ofthose dentists use the modified ALF devices. Also, the president did not indicate 
how many of the modified devices his company has made or whether other companies make them. 
Thus, because the record does not demonstrate widespread use of her ALF modifications in the field, 
the Petitioner has not established their claimed "major significance." See Krasniqi, 558 F.Supp.3d at 
187-88 (holding that "major significance" means "the impact should extend beyond the petitioner's 
locality or a handful of participants in the field") ( citations omitted). 
The Petitioner argues that the company president's letter: 
demonstrates that the results ofmy work have been successfully applied in practice and 
have found widespread application in the medical field. Such recognition by 
commercial entities indicates that my developments have high potential in the field of 
orthodontics and healthcare as a whole. 
The criterion, however, requires evidence of "contributions of major significance in the field." 
Evidence that the Petitioner's contributions have a "high potential" to have major significance is 
insufficient. See Karim v. Allen, No. 21-cv-2861-WJM-KLM, 2023 WL 4624896, *7 (D. Colo. July 
19, 2023) (affirming USCIS' determination that a petitioner did not demonstrate "that she already 
made contributions of major significance to the field") ( emphasis in original). Also, as previously 
discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that her ALF 
modifications "have found widespread application in the medical field." 
Regarding the Petitioner's research on pre-surgical protocols, a Massachusetts dentist called the 
Petitioner's work "extremely important." He said it is "essential" to understand and implement 
radiographic and clinical examinations of implant candidates. He stated: "The completion of such 
protocols leads to a much improved result in patients receiving proper and timely treatment with dental 
implants." The Russian dental surgeon stated that he uses the Petitioner's research papers on pre­
surgical protocols in his lectures. He stated: "Her works set the standard for pre-surgical evaluation 
of patients, especially for implantation." 
Despite the favorable letters, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that her research on pre­
surgical protocols has "major significance" in the dentistry/orthodontics field. As the Director found, 
the record does not establish others' frequent citations to the Petitioner's work or its provocation of 
widespread commentary in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
6 
The Petitioner concedes that evidence of widespread commentary or a large number of citations is 
"probative" of major significance. But she argues that such evidence "may not be dispositive as to 
this criterion." The Petitioner, however, has not pointed to other evidence establishing that her 
research has major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that her original contributions in her field are of major 
significance. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding regarding this evidentiary requirement. 
5. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of [their] authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has authored scholarly articles in the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F .(2)(B)( I). A scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, 
or philosophical discourse and is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated 
with a college, university, or research institution. Id. Also, scholarly articles generally undergo peer 
review by other experts in the field of specialization. Id. 
The Agency next determines whether a publication qualifies as a professional, major trade, or major 
media publication. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). In evaluating publications, 
relevant factors include: for professional journals, the intended audience; and, for major media, the 
circulation or readership relative to other media in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of 10 articles that she wrote or co-authored between 2012 and 2023. 
Many were published in Russian medical or dental journals. 
The Director found that abstracts of the articles lacked dates of the articles' reviews, acceptances, and 
publishing, casting doubt on their claimed publications. The Director also faulted the Petitioner for 
omitting "a URL address or any other information for USCIS to independently verify that each article 
was published to Google Scholar, etc. and to verify that [she is] the actual author." 
Contrary to the Director's findings, the abstracts provide dates of the articles' publishing. Also, 
Google Scholar verifies a few ofthe articles and lists the Petitioner as the author or co-author. Further, 
in response to the Director's request for additional information, the Petitioner provided full copies of 
the articles, with letters from the publishers verifying the articles' publishing dates and her authorship 
or co-authorship of them. The record also indicates that all of the Russian journals are peer-reviewed. 
The Petitioner has demonstrated her authorship of scholarly articles in her field by a preponderance of 
the evidence. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
7 
6. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit"[ e ]vidence that [they have] performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first determines whether a pet1t10ner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner is or was a leader 
within the organization. Id. In contrast, a critical role means a petitioner "contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the [relevant] organization's ... activities." Id. 
The Agency then determines whether the organization has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). The word "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence" or "befitting an eminent person." Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. Relevant factors include not only an organization's relative 
size or longevity but also the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). 
The Petitioner provided letters from her partner in her clinic, three clinic employees, a Russian dentist, 
and the head of a digital agency. The letters describe the Petitioner's activities at the clinic and its 
growth from one to five dental chairs. 
The Director found insufficient evidence of both the Petitioner's participation in a leading or critical 
role at the clinic and the business's possession of a distinguished reputation. The Director found that 
the submitted letters lack "detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how [the 
Petitioner's] role was leading or critical for an entire organization, establishment, division, or 
department." 
We disagree. The letters describe how the Petitioner co-founded the clinic and managed it during its 
expansion. The letters state that she not only coordinates treatment plans for all patients but also, as 
chief physician, manages the clinic's business operations. The letters indicate her development of an 
automated management system that has improved clinic work processes, reduced patients' waiting 
times, and increased the business's profits. A preponderance of the evidence therefore establishes the 
Petitioner's performance in both a leading and critical role for the clinic. 
The record, however, lacks sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's clinic has a 
distinguished reputation. Employees describe the clinic as one ofthe best in Russia, and the Petitioner 
provided evidence of positive online reviews. The record also contains evidence that the clinic 
received an International Heritage diploma, indicating that the business passed a "comprehensive" 
financial and economic analysis rating it as a "stable and dynamically developing enterprise." But the 
record does not demonstrate the diploma's significance. The record also does not sufficiently indicate 
the clinic's size or the scale of its customer base, and contains insufficient evidence ofmedia coverage 
about it or its reputation in the dentistry/orthodontics field. 
8 
The Petitioner argues that her clinic is "one ofthe most successful and recognizable orthodontic clinics 
in Russia." But she has not provided sufficient evidence to support these claims. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated her performance in a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding on this evidentiary 
requirement. 
The Petitioner has not received a major international award and has satisfied less than three initial 
evidentiary criteria regarding extraordinary ability. The petition therefore does not demonstrate the 
Petitioner's claimed extraordinary ability in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Intent to Continue Working in the Field 
Our determination that the Petitioner has met less than three initial evidentiary requirements for 
extraordinary ability resolves this appeal. We therefore need not reach and hereby reserve 
consideration of the Director's finding of insufficient evidence of her intent to continue working in 
her field in the United States. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies 
need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal 
where an applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met the minimum number of evidentiary criteria to establish extraordinary 
ability in her field. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 20, 2024 In Re: 33939936 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an investment fund manager, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(1 )(A). Successful 
petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that, in 
attempting to establish extraordinary ability, the Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary 
requirements -two less than needed for a final merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that he submitted evidence not only of his authorship of scholarly articles in his field as the 
Director found, but also of: 
• Published materials about him; 
• His performance in a leading role for an organization with a distinguished reputation; and 
• His commandment of a high salary for his services. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Exercising de novo appellate review, 
see Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015), we conclude that, by submitting 
evidence ofpublished materials about himself and his performance in a leading role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation, he has met two additional evidentiary criteria. We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final merits determination consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" 
or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a 
petitioner meets either standard, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) must then make 
a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 201 0); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese native and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
statistics and a master's degree in business administration. He has worked in the securities research 
field for more than 30 years. He currently serves as general manager and fund manager of a Chinese 
private equity firm that he co-founded in 2015. The firm began managing investments worth 30 
million yuan, or about $4.2 million. It now oversees funds totaling 1.8 billion yuan, or about $254.6 
million. 
The Petitioner states that he seeks to continue working in the secunttes investment and fund 
management industry in the United States. Because of his expertise, he states that he can help both 
U.S. investors buy Chinese securities and Chinese investors select U.S. securities. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt ofa major internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore meet at least three ofthe ten evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) by submitting evidence of his authorship of scholarly articles in his field. The 
Petitioner also contends that he documented: 
• published materials about him relating to his work in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
• his performance in a leading role for an organization with a distinguished reputation under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); 
• and, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), his commandment of a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for his services as compared to others in his field. 
A. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the [ noncitizen] in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to [their] work in the field for which classification is 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether the published material relates to 
a petitioner and their specific work in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ). 
Evidence may include copies of print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular or academic 
journal articles, books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio 
or video coverage of a petitioner and their work. Id. The Agency then determines whether a 
publication qualifies as a professional, major trade, or major media publication. Id. When evaluating 
professional, major trade, or major media publications, relevant factors include: for professional and 
major trade publications, the intended audience; and, for major trade publications and other major 
media, the publications' relative circulation, readership, or viewership. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of 2022 articles about him in Chinese business magazines and on an 
online news site. The Director acknowledged that the articles feature the Petitioner and relate to his 
work in the securities and investment field. The Director, however, found that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate the materials' publication in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner submitted credible information that the online news site on which an article about him 
appeared ranks as the ninth most popular web portal site in China and the fourth most popular Chinese 
news site. The site has at least 10 million regular readers. We therefore find that the Petitioner has 
submitted evidence of published materials about him in major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(8) ("[A]lthough some of the regulatory language relating to evidence occasionally uses 
plurals, it is entirely possible that the presentation ofa single piece ofevidence in a specific evidentiary 
category may be sufficient.") We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
B. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role for a Distinguished Organization 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit"[ e ]vidence that [they have] performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first determines whether a pet1t10ner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner is or was a leader 
within an organization. Id. In contrast, a critical role means a petitioner "contributed in a way that is 
of significant importance to the outcome of the [relevant] organization's ... activities." Id. 
USCIS then determines whether an organization has a distinguished reputation. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). Relevant factors include not only an organization's relative size 
or longevity but also the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. Id. 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner documented his performance in a leading 
role at his private equity firm. The Director, however, found insufficient evidence of the firm's 
purported distinguished reputation. 
3 
As evidence of the firm's reputation, the Petitioner submitted copies of internal documentation from 
his firm, online financial news articles about the company or quoting the company's principals, and a 
letter from a financial journalist. The financial news articles report that, between 2019 and 2021, the 
company won consecutive I I and I Iawards for its investment funds. One article 
describes these annual awards, which Chinese financial publications sponsor, as the "Oscars of the 
[Chinese] public fund industry." The financial journalist stated that less than 1 % of the 9,000 private 
investment fund managers in China have received al Iaward. 
The Director did not find the firm's awards indicative of a distinguished reputation. Based on the 
extensive publicity they received in China, however, the awards lend prestige to the Petitioner's firm. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) (identifying media coverage as a relevant factor in 
determining whether an organization has a distinguished reputation). Also, although the firm is less 
than lOyears old, it has grown rapidly. The record further indicates that the company's competitors 
have tried to copy its successful investment approach. A preponderance of the evidence therefore 
demonstrates that the Petitioner's firm has a distinguished reputation. See Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 
19-6948-GW-JPRx, 2020 WL 3213788, *9 (C.D. Cal. Apr. 9, 2020) (focusing on whether an 
organization with a purported distinguished reputation "has achieved any measurable success"). Thus, 
we will withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
C. Remand 
To establish extraordinary ability, the Petitioner has met at least three initial evidentiary criteria. We 
therefore need not consider the purported evidence of his commandment of a high salary. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the Petitioner's filing. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20; see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B). The Director did not make such a finding. 
Rather than decide the issue in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and received recognition of his achievements in his field, identifying him as one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). 
The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, even it does not fit one of 
the regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The petition's approval or 
denial should stem from the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the minimum number of initial evidentiary criteria to establish extraordinary 
ability. USCIS must now make a final merits determination. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18019230 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an applied mechanics engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal of the Director's decision, as well as the Petitioner's subsequent motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider. The matter is again before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. As such, the issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A Procedural History 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets five of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner only satisfied two of the claimed criteria; 
specifically, the criteria related to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). On appeal, we determined that the Petitioner met the authorship of 
scholarly articles criterion, but we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the 
judging criterion after concluding that there was insufficient evidence of his participation in peer review 
activities. We also determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied the criteria relating to memberships 
2 
and published materials. We reserved and did not discuss the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that the Petitioner would not satisfy the initial evidence requirements even if he 
established that this criterion had been met. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner addressed the criteria relating to judging the work of others and original 
contributions. Specifically, he asserted that we overlooked certain evidence that was previously 
submitted and stated that he was submitting new evidence establishing that he meets the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also requested that we review all evidence related to the original 
contributions criterion that we previously reserved, including new evidence submitted on motion. 
We concluded that the new evidence submitted in support of the motion to reopen established that the 
Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and we withdrew our appellate 
determination with regard to that criterion. However, we determined that the Petitioner's evidence on 
motion did not satisfy the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We dismissed the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, determining that the Petitioner had not established that he 
met a third criterion and thus had not met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, nor 
had he demonstrated that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS 
policy. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
The Petitioner asserts that he has made original contributions of major significance based on his 
doctoral dissertation at University ofl I in which he studied! I 
inl I due tol I interactions, and based on his work as a senior applied mechanics 
engineer withl l where he worked on the development and commercialization of1 I 
supports and restraints forl !applications in the energy industry. 
In dismissing the prior motion, we acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of letters from 
colleagues and other scientists and experts regarding his original contributions in his field. 2 While the 
letters summarized the Petitioner's research achievements and broadlv discussed the potential impact 
of his mechanical engineering research in thd O I andl I industries, we determined 
that they did not establish that his original contributions were already recognized as majorly significant 
within these fields. 
We also noted that the inclusion of the Petitioner's published work in conferences and journals 
reflected the originality of that work, but determined that such publications and presentations alone 
did not establish that his research has been regarded as an original contribution of major significance 
in his field. Specifically, with regard to search results from Google Scholar indicating that one of his 
papers had been cited by others a total of seven times, we noted that he did not provide any comparative 
data suggesting that this level of attention from other researchers reflects widespread commentary 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 Although we discussed a sampling of letters in our prior decision, we reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
about his work that is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. Regarding 
numerous letters of recommendation submitted by the Petitioner, we determined that while the letters 
recognized the originality, importance, and/or prospective benefit of the Petitioner's graduate research 
and professional contributions at I I they did not contain detailed information showing the 
unusual influence or high impact the Petitioner's contributions have already had in the engineering 
field or in thel O landl I industries. 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits evidence previously submitted, as well as an 
additional letter of support froml !Production Development Advisor atl I ~ an additional letter of support froml I and new material relating to companies and 
practices in the I I industry intended to establish his eligibility for the requested classification. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he "still maintains that he has made original contributions of 
major significance to the field," and asserts that his innovative research and application of the 
engineering computation tool -thel I -has been widely implemented 
throughout the field." He argues that his application ofLJ combined with the fact that his research 
papers have been cited over 70 times, establishes the widespread recognition and application of his 
research in the field. The Petitioner also asserts for the first time that the evidence submitted is also 
sufficient to establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner begins by asking us to "revisit" previously submitted documentation, including 
evidence of his publications and citation history and letters from various individuals discussing his 
research and accomplishments. The Petitioner resubmits copies of several of these documents for our 
reference, and again asserts why he believes such documentation is sufficient to establish that he meets 
the original contributions criterion. The Petitioner farther acknowledges that he understands that "the 
above already exists in the record," and indicates that he is resubmitting such documentation "for 
convenience and clarity." 
As stated previously, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary 
evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what 
constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board's definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(l) 
(stating that a motion to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could 
not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do 
not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." While the Petitioner's assertions regarding his publication history and the opinion letters 
is noted, the Petitioner nevertheless offers previously submitted documentation for our review on 
motion. As this evidence does not qualify as "new" and we already evaluated it in earlier proceedings, 
we will not farther consider it in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner offers two new letters in support of his motion, and asserts that these letters "offer 
additional analysis of his contributions and the expanding ramifications for companies who benefit 
froml I's I I' A letter from 4 the Petitioner's colleague at 
I I again explains that the company is a world leader i sed inl I 
andl I power production, as well as.__ ______ __. an .......... ____ __.facilities. The 
letter also repeats previous statements regarding the Petitioner's role in the development ofl I I I, and how he was a leading influencer in moving the manufacturing of these! I 
from a sister facility in China tol ~ U.S. operations. In addition,! ~ again credits the 
Petitioner's involvement in developing automation tools to expedite the creation of thel I 
I I 
This letter largely mirrors the previously submitted letter submitted in su ort of the first motion. 
However, the new letter states that the Petitioner's accomplishments at were the result of his 
~ation of thel I which had not previously been used at prior to his arrival. ~ 
L__J also claims that the Petitioner's role in developing! ~ allowed! Ito provide 
cutting-edge and reliable! I products to clients in the critical I I sector, such as I land' I 
tter provides support for his conclusion that the Petitioner was a valuable asset to 
highly skilled engineer, but he does not explain how his role in the development of 
constitutes an original contribution of major significance. I I praises the 
Petitioner's use ofl I in the development process, and the manner in which it simplified the 
development process to an extent. However, he does not sufficiently explain how the use ofc=J in 
developing! I which he indicates must be designed in accordance witf industry lodes 
and regulations, constitutes an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, does 
not explain to what extent the Petitioner's role in the transfer ofl I~ I 
manufacturing from China to the United States amounts to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
The petitioner also submits a new letter from I I a former project engineer for one of 
I ts custo~ers 51 I again describes the Petitioner's research in this area, and again 
refers to his use of l analysis to verifyL • 0 • • ldesign for his former employer. H 
.__ ________________ __. " noting that "it was not a surprise for me to learn that he 
4 This is the third letter the Petitioner submitted;.,;:;fr;:;.;;o:.:c:rrlc!=====r---' 
5 The record contains a previous letter from thel I which was submitted in support of the Petition. 
5 
was ~ublishing and presenting his "ASME" paper at ASME's.__ _____ ~in 2015.6 E,......· ........... .........., 
whilel I credits the Petitioner with contributing to the improvement of safet in 
systems and making "critical recommendations in order to upgrade and enhance the .......... --~~--' 
he does not provide farther explanation or examples of how the Petitioner's work or the study noted 
above achieved these claimed safety improvements or how the study had been implemented in the 
industry. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although the Petitioner submits additional letters on 
motion, they do not offer farther insight into how his original research has already influenced or 
impacted the field. While the letters again establish that the Petitioner's original work has added value 
to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened avenues for farther research, they are insufficient to 
confirm that the level of attention his work has received in this area reflects widespread commentary 
and acceptance of his work, or that the mechanical engineering field regards his work as authoritative. 
Similarly, while we again acknowledr that the Petitioner published the above-referenced study and 
introduced efficiencies intol 's I I design process, the submitted letters do not 
contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact his research or 
work has had in the wider field or that any research that contributes to incremental advancements in 
an important industry is an original contribution of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner also refers to previously submitted search results from Google Scholar, claiming that 
since his research has been cited 70 times, this demonstrates that "his research has been used and 
validated by other experts in the field." On motion, the Petitioner also provides several Internet 
excerpts and articles generally discussing citation statistics to support this assertion, noting that the 
number of times a paper or article is cited is incongruent to its significance and impact on a given 
field. 
Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced, is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. Here, the Petitioner has 
not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation numbers recorded in Google Scholar 
confirm that one or more of his publications has provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the 
field." Although he has submitted evidence that his work has been cited by other researchers, he has 
not sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise 
6 In our prior decision, we noted that the referenced paper was accepted for the 2015 ASME '----------.,,,,.... 
.__ _______ _.I; however, we determined that the record did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work had been 
cited by other researchers or otherwise established that the study had attracted widespread commentary or been 
implemented by others in the industry. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
influenced the field in a significant way. 8 Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating 
evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not 
sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings have remarkably impacted or 
influenced his field. Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced 
his work, he did not establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major 
significance" as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence submitted on motion also demonstrates that he has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 11 
On motion, the Petitioner relies on the newly submitted letters froml I andl I noting 
that the letters establish that he "was the lead engineer for one of the most reputabl~ I 
specialists for their most advance engineering group." Specifically, the Petitioner asks us to consider 
I Is statement where he indicates that the Petitioner's "work was critical to our ability to 
provide cutting-edge and reliable! I which ensures the security and reliability of our 
product to companies (and their customers) throughout the United States and the world." The 
Petitioner farther relies on I Is letter, which noted that the Petitioner occupied a critical role 
"as a conference presenter, publisher, and/or employee of other distinguished companies." 
The record shows that the Petitioner played a significant role in the Ap]lied Mechanics Unit for 
I I and applied his innovative research to industrial I and the development of 
I I The record, however, does not provide the sense of scale necessary to show 
that the Petitioner's role was leading or critical for I las an organization, and not just for the 
individual projects performed within the Applied Mechanics Unit. 
A given unit or project is not, itself, an or~anization or establishment, and the record does not show 
that the Petitioner was sufficiently high in ~ s organizational hierarchy to have a significant 
8 For example, the Petitioner resubmits a copy of his paper titled~-----------------~ 
and relies on citations to the paper in support of his assertion. Previously submitted search results .....,,....---=--.,.......,,,.....,...---,-~. from Google Scholar, however, indicate that this paper had been cited by others a total of seven times since its publication 
in 2012. The Petitioner did not provide any comparative data suggesting that this level of attention from other researchers 
reflects widespread commentary about his work that is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. 
9 While we acknowledge the submitted Internet articles and excerpts regarding the value of citations, we find them 
unpersuasive. For instance, one submission is an opinion piece from www.lucbeaulieu.com, which appears to question 
the value of a number when reviewing citations of a given piece of work. We do not find such evidence probative here, 
as the issue before us is not the number of citations the Petitioner's publications have garnered, but whether his work has 
already been widely implemented or significantly impacted the field. 
10 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
11 Id. 
7 
effect on the company as a whole, rather than the subdivision that works with applied mechanics. 
While the letter from! !indicates that the Petitioner was placed in a "lead position" or a "lead 
role" and oversaw a team of engineers in the Applied Mechanics Unit, this team is not, by itself: an 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. Moreover, the exact position held by 
the Petitioner during his tenure wit~ lhas not been sufficiently defined. 
Again, whilcl Is letter attests to the importance of the Petitioner's role within the Applied 
Mechanics Unit ofi l it does so in the context of specific projects within a specific subdivision 
of the company. While the letter indicates that the Petitioner's work was profitable for the company, 
in terms of both revenue and innovation, it does not indicate the significance of the Petitioner's 
financial impact relative to the entire organization. The submitted information shows that the 
Petitioner has led a unit of engineers on several projects, but that unit is not an organization or 
establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
Nor are we persuaded by the Petitioner's claim that his role as a conference presenter, publisher, and 
various undefined roles within other organizations, as stated in I ts letter, demonstrates that 
he performed in a leading or critical role for companies or establishments with distinguished 
reputation. Generally reciting all positions the Petitioner has occupied during his career, while notable, 
does not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. Moreover, this general claim, absent information 
identifying the organizations or establishments for which he claims to have performed a leading or 
critical role, precludes us from determining whether such entities had a distinguished reputation such 
that we could farther evaluate the nature of his role within each such organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Considered together, the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, the evidence 
consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, and the citation statistics establish 
that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon 
by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance in his field, or that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the new evidence 
submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion, nor has he shown that 
our previous decision was based upon an incorrect application of law or policy. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Although the Petitioner indicates that he is concurrently filing a 
motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's general request that we reconsider our prior decision does not 
specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does he attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 
Here, the Petitioner relies on the new evidence he submits on motion, particularly the new letters 
submitted to demonstrate that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions, as a 
basis for reconsideration of our decision. While the Petitioner states that he respectfully disagrees 
8 
with our prior determination that the previously submitted letters were insufficient to demonstrate that 
this criterion had been met, he does not argue or point to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in 
our prior decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. Disagreeing with our conclusions without 
showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the 
evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, 
the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, 
our decision thoroughly analyzed and explained why every piece of evidence and argument addressed 
in the motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
we erred in either misapplying law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief and additional evidence in support of the current 
motion, he does not contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous 
motion to reconsider. The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and is otherwise qualified for the requested classification, and 
his repetition of arguments he previously made in support of his appeal and prior motion, do not meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. As 
such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and must therefore be 
dismissed. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision, nor 
does the new evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18236398 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has appeared onstage with thel I acting company since 1992. She has 
also appeared on several television programs and in a small number of motion pictures. In 2000, she won 
a National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress for her work in the filml I. The Petitioner 
has entered the United States several times since 2018, most recently in March 2020, as a B-2 
nonimmigrant visitor, a classification that does not allow employment in the United States. 2 I I 
Television, a I I network based inl I intends to feature the Petitioner in television 
productions once she is authorized to work in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, numbered (i), (iv), and (vii). We 
will not disturb this conclusion. We need not address the other claimed criteria, because the three 
granted criteria are enough for us to proceed to a final merits determination. 
1 The record contains alternative transliterations of several names and titles, including the Petitioner's name, but in context 
it is evident that the different spellings refer to the same subjects. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 214.l(e). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility. 
The Director acknowledged tha~ Is National Film Award is nationally recognized, but the 
Director concluded that the award has diminished weight because "it was awarded twenty years ago for 
Best Supporting Actress and not for Best Actress." But the distinction between "Actress" and 
"Supporting Actress" concerns the nature of a given role, rather than the quality of the performance or 
the reputation of the actor. Casting decisions may rely on many factors unrelated to the recognition of 
individual actors. 
The Director is correct that the Petitioner received the award 20 years before she filed the petition. As 
such, the award by itself does not demonstrate sustained acclaim. But the petition does not rest on the 
award alone, and the Petitioner does not place undue emphasis on it. In newspaper articles in the record, 
the Petitioner emphasizes that she considers herself a stage performer foremost, and the articles discuss 
her television work more than they discuss her infrequent film roles. 
Regarding that newspaper coverage, the Director correctly found that many of the submitted articles lack 
the author credit required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The requirement of an author credit serves 
several important purposes. If the bulk of an individual's coverage comes from one reporter, for instance, 
then there is doubt about the breadth of that individual's recognition. Press releases written by a hired 
publicist can be self-serving, regardless of which publications subsequently publish them. And articles 
written by petitioners themselves, or by those with close ties to them, would obviously have minimal 
weight as evidence of acclaim. Nevertheless, we can consider the submitted articles in the holistic context 
of the final merits determination. 
The Petitioner submits evidence establishing that the Daily Star is a significant newspaper in ~I---~ 
The record contains several Daily Star articles about the Petitioner, dated between 2012 and 2019. In 
some instances, the headlines refer to the Petitioner only by her first name, indicating an assumption that 
the readers would be familiar with the Petitioner and her work. Several other newspapers covered the 
Petitioner's work during that same span of time. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Daily Star also reported frequently on productions byl I calling it "one of the most 
notable theatre troupes in the country." The Petitioner states that she has appeared in almost every I I production since she joined the group in 1992. A founder of the group, now serving 
as its chief secretary, states that the Petitioner "is known all over the country as a star theater performer." 
Other high-ranking individuals inl I attest to the Petitioner's reputation in the field. Most 
prominently, the country's Minister oflnformation calls her a "legendary actress" whose "contributions 
... are outstanding." Top executives of various television networks make similar assertions. The contract 
that secured the Petitioner's services as a judge on a talent competition calledl I calls her "an 
esteemed cultural figure inl t' There is a limit to the weight we can afford to such letters, 
whatever their quantity. The highest levels of acclaim will produce a variety of documentary evidence 
prior to, and independent ot: the filing of the petition; an actor whose career has left little public trace 
until she solicits letters specifically in support of the petition will have difficulty establishing eligibility 
for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. But, in this case, the Petitioner has not relied on such 
letters to the exclusion of more persuasive forms of evidence. Even if we set the letters entirely aside, the 
record presents an award-winning career that has consistently attracted media coverage. 
Some of the specific claims in the record lack evidentiary support, such as assertions that!.__ ___ __. 
was "one of the most watched programs in television," and that the Petitioner's performances with I l"are regularly sold out," even as the Petitioner contends that box office figures are not 
available. In the absence of corroborating documentation, these assertions do not establish commercial 
success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Nevertheless, when a petitioner has claimed to satisfy more than 
three of the ten baseline criteria, that petitioner need not meet all of them to establish eligibility in the 
final merits determination. Here, the Petitioner's evidence suffices to establish eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has presented a variety of evidence with significantly divergent weight and probative 
value, but as a whole, and on balance, the evidence submitted is sufficient to establish a prominent 
career inl I that has lasted for decades. The Petitioner has established sustained national 
acclaim. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17644740 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, which trains athletes inl lseeks to classify the Beneficiary ,~------~ 
coach, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements with respect to the 
Beneficiary's recognition as an athlete, it did not do so regarding his recognition as a coach. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The petitioning club has trained several champion! I[ inclulding the silver medalist at the 2016 
Olympics. In the United Kingdom, the Beneficiary trained at where he later worked as a coach. 
After entering the United States, the Beneficiary trained at the petitioning club. In early 2017, he began 
coaching for the Petitioner as an 0-1 nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability, while continuing to compete. 
We agree with the Director that the Beneficiary's gold medal at the 2014 .__ ______ __. 
Championships, while significant, is not a major, internationally recognized prize that qualifies as a one­
time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Without such a prize, the Petitioner must submit evidence 
to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director essentially stipulated that the Beneficiary meets at least three criteria as an athlete: 
• The Beneficiary won "many awards including the gold medal at the 2014._I ______ _. 
Championships," satisfying 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(~ 
• The Beneficiary's membership in Great Britain'sl___Jteam at the 2012 and 2016 Olympics 
is a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); and 
• "The record shows the beneficiary has received major media attention as an international 
athlete," fulfilling the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director also determined that the Beneficiary's coaching position with the Petitioner qualifies as 
a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation, satisfying 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
If the Petitioner had filed this petition seeking to classify the Beneficiary as an athlete of extraordinary 
ability, the above determinations would be sufficient for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to proceed to a final merits determination. The Petitioner, however, seeks to employ the 
2 
Beneficiary as a coach, rather than as an athlete. The Director determined that much of the Petitioner's 
evidence concerns the Beneficiary's achievements and recognition as an athlete, not as a coach. The 
Petitioner contends, on appeal, that the "Beneficiary's field of endeavor is I I and therefore his 
accomplishments as a competitor should have more weight than the Director afforded them. 
In this respect, it bears noting that the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Beneficiary "continues to 
compete as al I on a national and international level." The petition form indicates that the 
Petitioner intends to employ the Beneficiary only as a I I coach, but this does not mean the 
Beneficiary has stopped competing. Rather, the Petitioner is not a professional team that employs 
athletes to compete on its behalf 1 Instead, thellteams are separate from the traTing dibs. The 
Petitioner's head coach is also the head men's~ch for Team USA, the national team. 
As the Petitioner observes on appeal, the USCIS Policy Manual directly addresses the issue of athletes 
transitioning to coaching: 
Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not 
in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes have gone on to 
be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that users can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Under this policy guidance, 
evidence of acclaim as an athlete cannot suffice by itse(fto establish extraordinary ability as a coach, 
but users can give proportionate weight to evidence of that acclaim when the record also shows that 
the acclaim has continued into the beneficiary's coaching career. The guidance in the Policy Manual 
does not specify that a beneficiary must satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria as both an athlete and 
a coach; rather, it calls for evidence of continued acclaim, which is an issue for the final merits 
determination. 
Given the above factors, the proper course of action is to conduct a final merits determination, seeking 
to determine whether the Beneficiary has achieved sustained acclaim both as an athlete and as a coach. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
1 Tax documents in the record indicate that the Petitioner paid $127,105 in wages in 2018, and the Benefici7 received more 
than a third of that amount. These figures do not indicate that the Petitioner has a salaried staff of competitive I 
3 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has 
established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record amply documents the Beneficiary's success as an athlete. As noted above, the Beneficiary 
has medaled at high-level international competitions. Ranking lists indicate that the Beneficiary 
ranked #4 in Great Britain in 2018, six years after his first Olympic competition. Most recently, the 
Beneficiary placed first in Britain's National Championships in spring 2019, about six months before 
the Petitioner filed the retitionl in October of that year. While continuing to compete, the Beneficiary 
also coached top-level first fo~and then, since early 2017, for the Petitioner. 
The record supports a determination that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim as a competitive! I The question before us is whether the Beneficiary 
has sustained that acclaim into his coaching career. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that 
he has done so. 
The Beneficiary's former coach atO who has also coached the British Olympic team, states that, 
at his club, the Berficiaj "trained athletes to compete at an Olympic and World Championship 
level," including a "who made it in the top 8 in the World Cup in a ground-breaking 
performance." 
The Petitioner's head coach, who has also served as a coach of the USA National! lteam since 
2011 and as an Olympid lcoach since 2008, asserts that the club has produced a record number 
of champions since the Beneficiary began working there, and he indicates that the Beneficiary is 
responsible for "the direction of the club" during the head coach's absence and, eventually, his choice 
as permanent successor. Twd I who train at the petitioning center, both of whom won medals 
at the 2016 Olympics, attest to the Beneficiary's high-level coaching activity at the Petitioner's 
facility. The record documents the performance of several I lwho train under the Beneficiary. 
The president and chairman of the board ofUS/\1 l(the sport's U.S. national overnin bod 
who is also the vice president of the sport's international governing body, th;;.;:eci.---.-------~ I I states that the Beneficiary's "positive influence on the US ~-~-has been felt on 
several fronts," including "[a]s a high level training partner for our USA Men's Team." 
These letters confirm that the Beneficiary has coached at the highest levels in the United Kingdom 
and the United States, training champion athletes who have already competed at the Olympics and are 
well situated to do so again. In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's 
coaching work amounts to leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation, satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the beneficiary possesses the required high level of expertise for the immigrant 
classification). 
4 
A leading or critical role is not enough, by itself: to establish eligibility, but in the context of the 
Beneficiary's recent ( and ongoing) acclaim as a competitive! I it is consistent with the conclusion 
that the Beneficiary is coaching at the same level at which he has been competing. 
The record establishes that the Beneficiary reached the top of his field as ~ I and has remained 
there as al I coach. We will therefore sustain the appeal and approve the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim in his field and 
submitted extensive documentation of his achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that the 
Beneficiary intends to continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that his entry 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18142743 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, aOcomputer executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of the classification through 
receiving a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a technology consultant and received his Bachelor of En in Computer 
Science and Engineering in 2002 frouL ____ ....-----...,..~---~---...J in! I 
India. At the time of filing, he was employed by.__ __ __. 1 ~---~ Maryland as a technical 
architect. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging the work of others in the same or an allied field 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that he performed peer reviews for the journal IEEE 
Transactions on Cloud Computing. The record also reflects that the Petitioner performed in a leading 
or critical role as a founding member of th~ I J team atl I an organization with 
a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that he meets the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria relating to memberships, 
original contributions, and high salary, and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.1 For the reasons outlined below, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence that sufficiently 
demonstrates that he meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The record shows that in 2017, the Petitioner's membership in the 
IEEE was elevated to "Senior Member" level, which he maintains satisfies the regulatory requirements 
of this criterion. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a 
copy of the IEEE bylaws, and argued that admission to senior membership requires "substantial 
responsibility or achievement." In support of this assertion, he highlighted relevant excerpts of section 
1-104.03 of the bylaws, which states as follows: 
3. Senior Member. The grade of Senior Member is the highest for which application 
may be made and shall require experience reflecting professional maturity. For 
admission or transfer to the grade of Senior Member, a candidate shall be an engineer, 
scientist, educator, technical executive, or originator in IEEE-designated fields .... 
The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at least ten years and shall 
have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years, such 
performance including one or more of the following: 
(a) Substantial responsibility or achievement in one or more of IEEE-designated 
fields; or 
(b) Publication of papers, books, or inventions in one or more of IEEE-designated 
fields; or 
(c) Technical direction or management of important work with evidence of 
accomplishment in one or more of IEEE-designated fields; or 
(d) Recognized contributions to the welfare of the professions encompassed by one 
or more of IEEE-designated fields; or 
( e) Development or furtherance of important courses in one or more of IEEE­
designated fields; or 
( f) Contributions equivalent to those of (a) to ( e) in areas related to IEEE­
designated fields, provided these contributions serve to advance progress 
substantially in IEEE-designated fields. 
(Emphasis added by Petitioner). 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
The Petitioner maintained that "substantial achievement," as contemplated by the bylaws, was no 
different from "outstanding achievement," noting that there appeared to be sufficient evidence to 
indicate "that they are equivalent in substance." 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the IEEE's stated requirements for admission as 
a Senior Member (professional maturity, ten years of relevant experience and "significant 
performance" over a period of at least five of those years) did not rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. The Director found the Petitioner's assertions 
unpersuasive, and concluded that membership requirements based simply on employment and/or 
activity in a given field cannot satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts his contention that there is no inherent difference between 
"substantial achievement" and "outstanding achievement." The Petitioner argues that the Director 
"advocated a novel policy interpretation" and did not provide authority for determining that 
"substantial achievement," as set forth in the bylaws, did not equate to "outstanding achievement" as 
contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
We exercise de nova review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 
26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to 
defer to findings made in the initial decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that 
were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. Upon review, while we acknowledge that the 
Director's decision could have provided additional reasoning to support its determination on this issue, 
we nevertheless agree with the Director's ultimate finding that the Petitioner's membership in the 
IEEE falls short of meeting the requirements of this criterion. 
According to the IEEE bylaws, "a candidate shall be an engineer, scientist, educator, technical 
executive or originator in IEEE-designated fields ... The candidate shall have been in professional 
practice for at least ten years and shall have shown significant performance of a period of at least five 
of those years." The bylaws further specify that "significant performance" can take the form of 
"[p]ublication of papers, books, or inventions." The Petitioner has not established that the IEEE 
requirements of 10 years of relevant experience in a particular field and "publication of paper, books, 
or inventions" rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with IEEE. 2 
Although the bylaws also indicate that "significant performance" can include "substantial 
responsibility or achievement," we do not agree with the Petitioner's assertion that "substantial 
achievement" equates to "outstanding achievement." For instance, the evidence indicates that the 
IEEE has a "Fellow" membership grade that appears to align more closely with the regulatory 
language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Specifically, according to the submitted IEEE bylaws, Fellow 
membership requires "an outstanding record of accomplishments" that have "contributed importantly 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
4 
to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology."3 In addition, one can 
apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and election at 
the highest levels of the association. 
While we acknowledge that the existence of this higher-level membership grade does not 
automatically lead to a conclusion that the Senior Member grade does not satisfy this criterion, the 
evidence contained in the IEEE bylaws provides useful context regarding how the association views 
a prospective member's qualifications. The existence of two different elevated levels of membership 
with different stated requirements indicates that the IEEE does not consider the "significant 
performance" required for Senior membership (which includes "substantial achievement," as asserted 
by the Petitioner) to be equivalent to the "outstanding accomplishments" required for Fellow 
membership. Further, the record does not establish that prospective Senior Members are admitted 
only after having their achievements judged by "recognized national or international experts in the 
field" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record, therefore, does not demonstrate that the IEEE's standards for Senior membership rise to 
the level of "outstanding achievements" as contemplated by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While this membership level does not appear to be available to all professionals 
with 10 years of experience in the field, and some persons who are elevated to Senior Member likely 
exceed the minimum entry requirements, the Petitioner must establish that IEEE requires Senior 
Members to have "outstanding achievements" as an essential condition of membership to demonstrate 
that his membership satisfies the requirements of this criterion. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner relies on his work relating to I I and his development of the._l ~--' I I technology for I I as evidence that meets this criterion. The Director determined 
that while his development of this technology and his advances irj I constitute original 
contributions, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his contributions are considered both original 
and of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director ignored critical 
evidence l)ertainin to his technology. He notes that despite submitting media reports 
discussin=--------' and its advances in the industry, the Director erroneously declined to 
afford this evidence sufficient evidentiary weight. 
3 The requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely with the regulatory language than the 
requirements for the Senior Member grade: 
2. Fellow. The grade of Fellow recognizes unusual distinction in the profession and shall be conferred by the 
Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of 
interest . . . . The accomplishments that are being honored shall have contributed importantly to the advancement 
or application of engineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society .... 
5 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.4 For 
example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Director determined that the media reports and letters of support from 
the Petitioner's colleagues were insufficient to meet this criterion. We find no error in the Director's 
determination. 
On appeal, while the Petitioner acknowledges that most of the media reports submitted, as noted by 
the Director, pertained to th~ I industry in general, he asserts that the Director did not 
afford sufficient evidentia an article published on www.gartner.com titled I I 
Accordin to the Petitioner, this 
article indicates that the Petitioner's em lo er is the leader in L..--;-----..-----' 
services worldwide, noting that.__ ________ __,of the article confirms.__ __ ___, s position 
at the top of the industry, just above its com etitor The Petitioner concludes that this rarkingl 
"is a clear indication of the impact of.__ _____ _.brought about with its uni ue ability for 
I I The Petitioner also references an article published on s own website 
indicating that the company is positioned as a leader in the.__ _____ _. for worldwide! I 
professional services for 2020. 
The record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner's contributions have already impacted 
the field at a significant level. While the articles referenced by the Petitioner demonstrate that his 
employer is a leader in the field of there is no indication tha~~---~t s position 
in the industry is a direct result of the Petitioner'~ I technology, or that this technology 
has been widely impacted beyond and its clientele. We do not doubt that the Petitioner is 
well-equipped to offer highly specializedLr----c____Jservices tol land that hisl I I I technology has been beneficial t-~---~'s position in the industry. However, regardless 
of the field of endeavor, the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" 
requires evidence of an impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013). 
The record also contains letters from the Petitioner's colleagues atl I regarding his original 
contributions in his field, which praise his achievements inl I_ and discuss his 
development of the I I technology. As noted by the Director, while some of these letters 
discuss the impact or potential impact of his contributions in broad terms, they do not establish that 
his original contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within his field. On appeal, 
the Petitioner does not address the evidentiary deficiencies in the letters as noted by the Director, nor 
does he contest the Director's determination that the letters do not specifically discuss how hd I I I technology has impacted the field beyond! I and its clients. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information exraining the unusual influence or high impact hisl ~ technology 
or his achievements in I have had on the general field. Letters that specifically 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that he has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 7 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner indicated that his annual salary of$135,300 was a "management 
level 7" salary, and was higher than the average base salaries of other U.S. executives employed in 
positions such as executive managers ($74,516), senior executive managers ($99,505) or top 
executives ($104,600). In support of this assertion, the Petitioner provided Internet excerpts from 
www.indeed.com and the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook Handbook . 
The Director determined that these general salary statistics for various executive-level positions were 
not a sufficient basis for comparison, as they did not reflect that the Petitioner earned a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field or specifically those at a 
"management level 7" salary. On appeal, the Petitioner simply states that "the law explicitly requires 
evidence that the beneficiary has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. See 8 CFR. The regulation does not state other 'high 
earners' in the field but states 'others' in the field." 
We agree with the Director's determination. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the submitted 
documentation pertaining to various "executive" salaries constitutes an appropriate basis of 
comparison to the Petitioner's position. The record does not sufficiently show that the data regarding 
this broad category represents an appropriate comparison against individuals engaged in similar work. 
See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. 111. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
Moreover, on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, the Petitioner classified his 
position under Standard Occupation Classification (SOC) code 15-1241, "Computer Network 
Architects ." While we note that he lists his job title on the Form 1-140 as al I 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
7 
"executive," his selection of SOC code 15-1241 as an appropriate classification of his occupational 
title contradicts his assertion that his position is executive in nature, and suggests that the appropriate 
basis for comparison is whether he commands a higher salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to other computer network architects in the field. The Petitioner must resolve this 
discrepancy in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter 
of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20274865 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets five criteria in 
addition to the two criteria that the Director concluded she met. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a business leader with experience in strategic management, 
business development, and entrepreneurship. She holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics and 
Political Science from the University of land has developed numerous business strategies and 
innovations for companies throughout North America. She is the co-founder and chief executive 
officer (CEO) of I a Florida-based tech education company. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met her burden to establish that she has published material 
about her and has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that the Petitioner satisfied 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii). 
2 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director failed to consider 
evidence relating to an additional criterion. Further, the Director's determinations with respect to 
certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
With respect to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's initial evidence and additional evidence 
submitted in response to the request for evidence (RFE). However, the Director did not provide an 
adequate analysis of this evidence and did not explain, for example, why he determined that some of 
the awards were regional in nature, that some of the awards were conveyed to organizations as opposed 
to the Petitioner, and why supporting documentary evidence was given little evidentiary weight. 
Further, the Director's discussion of this criterion in the decision closely mirrors that provided in the 
RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of additional evidence with her RFE response. Given the 
amount and type of evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we find the Director's brief analysis 
does not adequately inform the Petitioner of the reasons for concluding that none of the awards 
satisfied the plain language of this criterion. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As with the awards criterion, the Director listed some of the documents the 
Petitioner submitted but did not discuss any specific evidence in his analysis of the criterion, instead 
reaching a conclusory finding that the evidence in general was insufficient to meet the regulatory 
requirements. As the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters 
explaining how the evidence supports her eligibility. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and 
submitted evidence of her participation on judging panels for a variety of entrepreneurial competitions 
the occurred prior to the petition's filing. Although the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim, 
he declined to evaluate this claim or the evidence submitted in support of this claim, and therefore did 
not make a determination as to whether the Petitioner meets this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
emphasizes its previous submission of this evidence and provides supplemental evidence relating to 
the Beneficiary's services as a jury member. On remand, the Director should review the record, 
including the supplemental evidence submitted on appeal, to determine whether the Beneficiary met 
this criterion at the time of filing. 
3 
With regard to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director's decision did not sufficiently address most of the evidence she submitted and summarily 
concludes that her contributions, though original and relevant, have not substantially impacted the 
business field. In support of her claim that she has made original contributions of major significance 
in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence related to various business strategies and initiatives she 
developed, and submitted letters from industry experts and other evidence related to her 
accomplishments and their impact on the field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director failed to consider much of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. As the Director 
only vaguely referenced "information and letters" in his analysis of this criterion, without specifically 
identifying any particular documents, he should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence 
submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
Finally, in evaluating the criterion relating to high salary or other significantly high remuneration at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted her employment 
contract and tax forms as evidence of her income, as well as comparative salary data, and concluded 
that the Petitioner's salary is not high compared to other CEO positions in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner re-emphasizes that she is a business entrepreneur and notes that while the Director 
acknowledged this assertion, he declined to evaluate her salary as an entrepreneur under this criterion 
despite the submission of significant evidence. We agree with the Petitioner that the Director should 
not have discounted the Petitioner's claimed occupation and supporting evidence, and further note 
that, similar to the analysis of the awards criterion, the Director's discussion of this criterion in the 
decision closely mirrors that provided in the RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of additional 
evidence with her RFE response. We therefore remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22338331 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a home appliance manufacturer , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
establishing his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's 
decision was erroneous and that the Beneficiary meets at least three criteria as required. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a global manufacturer and marketer of home appliances. 
The Beneficiary is currently employed as its of Strategy and Business 
Development at itsl I location. The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual 
of extraordinary ability in the field of business based on his expertise in the activation of category and 
digital growth strategies for consumer goods and retail companies. The record indicates that the 
Beneficiary holds a master's degree in business administration from the I I School of 
Management at University as well as a diploma in international business and cultural 
studies from the University of and has approximately 20 years of experience in his field. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to five 
criteria: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met its burden to establish that the Beneficiary has held a 
leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations and has commanded a high 
2 
salary. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).1 The Petitioner 
further argues that in addition to being arbitrary and capricious, the Director's decision ignored 
probative evidence in the record, failed to give evidentiary weight to credible documentation, and 
applied erroneous legal standards or impermissibly imposed novel substantive legal requirements. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director's determinations 
regarding certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the evidence the Petitioner 
submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In his decision, the Director simply stated that "the petitioner provided articles 
about various topics in which the beneficiary was mentioned or quoted," but declined to discuss or 
analyze any of the articles submitted or their contents. Instead, the Director reached a conclusory 
finding that the evidence was insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements. On remand, the 
Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the 
Petitioner's assertions on appeal explaining how the evidence supports the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
With respect to the original contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's decision did not sufficiently address most of the 
evidence submitted and instead summarily concluded that the Beneficiary's contributions have not 
substantially impacted the field as a whole despite determining that they have had an impact on the 
success of his employer. The record demonstrates that the Petitioner submitted evidence, including 
project materials, internal documentation, and presentations demonstrating the Beneficiary's original 
contributions, as well as expert testimonial letters commenting on such contributions and their effect 
on the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that despite its submission of ample objective evidence 
both initially in support of the petition and in response to the request for evidence, the Director failed 
to consider or discuss any of this evidence in the denial. Regarding the expert letters, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director "arbitrarily dismissed the majority of the letters ... without analyzing the 
content of these letters in any way." We agree. The Director's decision devotes two sentences to two 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued its initial claim that the Beneficiary meets the criterion relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), nor does it contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in our decision. See. e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 
24 l&N Dec. 762. 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
3 
letters, respectively, and concludes simply that the authors of each letter did not provide examples of 
how the Beneficiary's contributions have impacted the field as a whole. The Director did not discuss 
the contents or subject matter of these letters, nor did he identify any specific deficiencies in these or 
any of the other letters. Moreover, the Director did not discuss the documentary evidence or the 
experts' commentary with regard to such documentation, which the Petitioner asserts demonstrates 
the Beneficiary's original contributions of major significance as contemplated by this criterion. The 
Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those 
claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include 
an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738510 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pathologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a medical degree and a Ph.D. in health, both from the !University of 
in his native Brazil. The Petitioner is a professor in the Department of I at 
and served as head of that de artment from 2011 to 2014 and from 2015 to 2017. He also 
worked as director of th and as a pa tho lo gist for municipal and state health 
secretariats in He is also a founder of I which provides laboratory testing 
support services. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
relating to judging and authorship of scholarly articles. We further find that he has satisfied the 
criterion relating to a leading or critical role. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the fourth claimed criterion, which 
requires documentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that his published articles constitute original contributions of major significance 
in the field. His authorship of those articles falls under a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
which the Petitioner has satisfied. For his articles to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xv), he 
must establish the majorsignificance of those articles. The burden of proofis on the Petitioner to establish 
eligibility; he cannot simply assert that his original contributions are of major significance. 
Although published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is 
of major significance. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed 
2 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the 
field of endeavor. 6 USCIS PolicyManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
As quoted above, the USCJS Policy Manual does not indicate that citations always establish major 
significance; we must consider context, such as the number of those citations. The Petitioner states that 
his published "work has been cited more than 158 times by peers [ from] all over the world." This is a 
cumulative figure, reflecting the aggregate total of citations of all his published work. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from Google Scholar showing that five of the Petitioner's articles had 
each garnered 10 or more citations; another six articles had citations in the single digits. Two of the most­
cited articles do notrepmioriginal scientific findings in the Petitioner's field. Themost-citedarticle, with 
42 citations, is a 2009 statistical study with the title I 
The third-most-cited article is a review article, which does not report 
original research. Rather, a review article surveys and summarizes the existing literature on a given 
subject. The Petitioner does not explain how a synopsis of already-published research constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance. 
The two remaining most-cited articles were an article from 2011 with 3 5 citations and an article from 
2016 with 12 citations. The Petitioner did not provide comparative evidence to show that these citation 
rates are commensurate with major significance in his field. The Petitioner discussed the calculation of 
impact factors for journals that published his work, but the impact factor is calculated from the overall 
citation rates of all articles published in a given journal. It does not give equal weight to every such 
article, or establish a presumption that a1iicles published in high-impact journals are inherently of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that he "contributed with his knowledge through conferences, becoming 
an influence among other colleagues by sharing his own professional experience." The Petitioner has 
documented his participation in a number of conferences, but he has not explained how, or established 
that, these presentations and appearances have major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that "three expert opinion letters from distinguished professionals in his area of 
expertise [show] that his work has been implemented by professionals." The first such letter is from the 
president of in lwho stated that "several [ of the Petitioner's articles 
were very relevant to this hospital." The second letter is from the director of a urological clinic in I lwho states that two of the Petitioner's articles "drew [his] attention and influenced [his] medical 
practice." The third letter is from a plastic surgeon, also in I who states that the Petitioner's 
published work has influenced some of the choices that she has made in her medical practice. 
These letters show that the Petitioner's work has had some degree of influence in the city of ___ 
but local influence is not tantamount to major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner states that the wider significance of his contributions is evident from email messages from 
journal publishers and conference organizers, which praised his earlier work and invited him to submit 
furthermanusc1ipts, join editorial boards, and speak at a conference. These materials are of questionable 
3 
weight. Every message that identifies a particular article by the Petitioner identifies the same article from 
2016. The messages offer general praise for the Petitioner's work, but no detailed discussion as to how 
it is of major significancein the field. Some of the messages appearto have been automatically generated, 
repeating bibliographic information and the abstract of the article without specific comments about the 
article. Many of the messages contain grammatical or typographical errors. The Petitioner's email 
providerflagged one ofthemessagesas "SPAM." One message invited the Petitioner to an "International 
Women [sic] Health and Breast Cancer Conference," indicating that the Petitioner's article established 
his "expertise and knowledge in the area," although that article specifically addressed an anatomical issue 
that only affects males. Given the many issues surrounding these messages, and the lack of any specific 
commentary about the Petitioner's work, we conclude that these materials are not evidence of the major 
significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof regarding this c1iterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
While we conclude that the Petitioner has submitted three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), he has not done so in a manner that establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has judged the work of others, thus satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but he has done so in the course of his normal duties as a university professor and 
department head, examining master's theses and evaluating candidates for faculty positions. 
Publication of scholarly articles satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vi), but this activity 
appears to be routine in academia, rather than a privilege restricted to those at the top of their fields. 
The Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that his work at _____ I I amounts to a critical role for an organization with a distinguished organization, thus satisfying 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but the record shows that his family founded the company 
and still owns it; the Petitioner himself received 30% of its shares from his father. Employment in a 
family-owned business certainly does not preclude national or international acclaim; a person in such 
a situation could attain such acclaim through their work. But the record does not show that the 
Petitioner's role at I has resulted in such acclaim, or that his high-ranking 
position is based on his acclaim. The Petitioner has submitted copies of news articles about the 
company, but these articles do not discuss the Petitioner apart from identifying him in captions to 
1 See also 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 appendix (stating that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
togetherwhen conside1ingthe petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
group photographs. Also, the submitted articles about the company have appeared in local media and 
do not establish that the company's officers, such as the Petitioner, are known outside two states in 
Eastern Brazil. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has established that he has been active as a researcher, but he has not 
shown that the reception and influence of his research rises to the level of national or international 
acclaim. The submitted citation figures lack a basis for comparison to show that the articles are among 
the most-cited in the field. 
Several lines of evidence, including documentation of his business activity and letters written to 
support the petition, indicate that the Petitioner's recognition is largely concentrated in thel I 
area. For example, one of the Petitioner's former professors a tated that the Petitioner's 
work at _________ gave a huge contribution to the city of I Some of 
these individuals work in medical specialties other than the Petitioner's stated specialty of pathology. 
The letters emphasize praise for the Petitioner's skills and knowledge, rather than specific ways in 
which the Petitioner's work has received national or international recognition. 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner has not established the sustained national or 
international acclaim required for eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence to meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). But in our final merits determination, we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, and we conclude that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's reputation 
appears to be predominantly local or regional. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6783238 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at 
least three. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we dismissed his appeal. We 
determined that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria but concluded in a final merits 
determination that he did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. The Petitioner submits a brief, together with 
new and previously submitted evidence, and asserts that he has established his eligibility for the 
requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established on motion that our decision to dismiss his 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the 
factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, he established that he had participated as a judge 
of the work of others, authored scholarly articles in a professional publication, and performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. Moreover, we conducted a 
final merits determination in which we reviewed the totality of the record, including evidence relating 
to additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).1 Based on this review, we found that the 
Petitioner did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of that 
small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he is submitting "additional proof' to establish that his participation 
on judging committees for museum and theatre reconstruction projects in the city ofl I Russia is 
"definitely indicative of the Petitioner's sustained national acclaim" because both were "highly 
distinguished projects." The Petitioner does not claim that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in our assessment of the previously submitted evidence related to his judging experience and 
1 The Petitioner also claimed to meet the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published materials in professional or major trade 
publications, and original contributions of major significance. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (v). 
2 
instead requests that we consider the new evidence related to these projects, which is submitted for the 
first time on motion. However, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. See 8 C.F.R. §103.5(a)(3). 
The Petitioner also asserts that we "regrettably ... failed to accept that the Petitioner had an extremely 
prestigious and important judging appointment as a member of the I I Committee under the 
Russian State Duma of the VI convocation, i.e. the Russian Parliament." Here, the Petitioner maintains 
that the previously submitted evidence "clearly establishes the Petitioner's appointment by 
preponderance of the evidence." 
In our prior decision, we clearly explained why the evidence submitted to document the Petitioner's 
appointment to this committee (also referred to as thel h was 
insufficient. The Petitioner relied on his own affidavit and on a letter from l I, I I ~--------~ whose own affiliation to the ~ is not documented in the record. The 
Petitioner did not submit evidence from thel I of the Russian State Duma confirming his 
membership on this council, nor is there are primary source information to support I I's 
claims regarding the membership requirements of thd I We weighed the probative value of the 
affidavit and letter and we concluded that the unsupported testimonial evidence alone was insufficient 
to support the Petitioner's claims regarding his membership in thee=] The Petitioner disagrees 
with our assessment of this evidence; however, the Petitioner does not address how we erred as a 
matter of law or policy in our evaluation. 
The Petitioner also disagrees with our determination that he was not the rec1p1ent of a 2007 
Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Award. In our decision, we noted that the record reflects that the 
award in question was "given to I I for Participation in Realization of project I I 
I I We emphasized that "[t]he description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation provides that the focus should be on 'the alien's' receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed 
to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes."2 The Petitioner indicates that he established 
his "central role" in his employer's receipt of the award through his previously submitted affidavit, 
but does not claim that he was the direct recipient or claim that we incorrectly applied the law or 
USCIS policy in our assessment of this evidence. We also determined that even if the Petitioner had 
established that he was the recipient of the CRE award, he did not show that this award from 2007, or 
other awards he received as a student in 2000, are indicative of the sustained national or international 
acclaim required by section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner does not address this conclusion 
on motion or explain how his claimed receipt of a CRE award in 2007, even if it was a nationally 
recognized award, evidences his sustained acclaim in his field. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that our prior decision "failed to comment on" evidence of "industry­
wide acceptance of the beneficiary's developed approach as a nationwide industry standard," and 
resubmits expert opinion letters from~-------~ and l J We addressed 
both letters in our decision, noting that the authors indicated that they based their opinions on the 
information provided in the Petitioner's affidavit rather than their own professional knowledge of his 
work. We determined that the letters summarized the Petitioner's professional accomplishments and 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
employment history, but did not explain how the Petitioner's achievements have been considered by 
the field to be of major significance, or how he is viewed by the overall field as being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Turning to the Petitioner's specific claim that the letters ofl I and established 
"industry-wide acceptance" of his own "developed approach," we note that states that the 
Petitioner "successfully applied his innovative methodologies and approaches t .__ _____ __.and I I solutions in major construction projects across Russia." He does not comment on an 
"industry-wide acceptance" of the Petitioner's methodologies or their incorporation into a "nationwide 
industry standard."! lstates that the Petitioner developed a "unique evaluation method" that 
is "applicable to any development project to differentiate and improve the production process." He 
notes the "potential" of the approach and states that the method "is of great interest to all in the 
manufacturing field." However, like I I he does not confirm that there has been "industry­
wide acceptance" of the approach or indicate that the Petitioner's methodology become a "nationwide 
industry standard." 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider also includes a new expert opinion letter dated April 24, 2019 
froml land recent evidence pertaining to the Beneficiary's company.I I I I as "proof of the evidence[ d] national interest in the Petitioner's continued engagement in 
his field." As discussed, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision and does not allow for the 
consideration of new evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that while the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria, he 
did not establish the sustained national or international acclaim required for this highly restrictive 
classification. The Petitioner does not show how we erred and or demonstrate that we misapplied law 
or policy to the facts presented. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not satisfy the requirements for a 
motion to reconsider. 
In addition, the Petitioner's motion does not include the required "statement about whether or not the 
validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the 
court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii). A motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7818364 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a psychologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet 
at least three. We subsequently dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal of that decision and the matter is 
now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reconsider to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration , a petitioner must 
not only meet the formal filing requirements , but also show proper cause for granting the motion. We 
cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirement s. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established on motion that our decision to dismiss 
her appeal was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify 
the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial 
decision. 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, she submitted evidence that she had participated 
as a judge of the work of others in her field and authored scholarly articles in professional publications, 
thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We also acknowledged the 
Petitioner's claim that she met four additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3), discussed the evidence 
relating to each, and explained why the evidence was insufficient to establish that any additional 
criteria had been met. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief repeating the same arguments she made on appeal without 
demonstrating how we improperly adjudicated her appeal or incorrectly applied law or policy. The 
Petitioner's allegations of error are limited to claims that "[r]egrettably, AAO failed to properly 
analyze additional evidence" submitted to establish that she also met the criteria relating to awards, 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, original contributions of major 
significance, and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). 
However, the Petitioner does not specify what "additional evidence" was overlooked in our 
adjudication of the appeal. The record reflects that the Petitioner's appeal included a completed Form 
I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, a brief: and a copy of the Director's denial decision. The 
Petitioner stated in the appellate brief that she was submitting additional evidence related to the awards 
criterion, but the appeal did not include this or any other additional evidence. 
Other than claiming that our decision overlooked this unidentified "additional evidence," the motion 
brief is nearly identical to the appellate brief, without any mention or discussion of our decision 
2 
dismissing the appeal. The Petitioner cannot meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider by 
broadly disagreeing with our conclusions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of 
law or policy. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was incorrect. We 
conducted a de nova review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence before us, and 
ultimately concluded that the Petitioner met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has not demonstrated how we erred or demonstrated that we 
misapplied law or policy in analyzing the evidence before us on appeal. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
did not satisfy the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
In addition, the Petitioner's motion does not include the required "statement about whether or not the 
validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the 
court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii). A motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8030965 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a software technology company , seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a senior creative 
designer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Beneficiary has a qualifying one-time achievement or, in the alternative, 
meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets five of those evidentiary criteria and has 
sustained national or international acclaim in her field. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary in the position of "Creative 
Designer II."1 The Beneficiary's curriculum vitae indicates that she has worked as a graphic designer 
and art director for various employers in Brazil and the United States since 2002. The Beneficiary 
received her bachelor's degree in industrial designl lin Brazil in 2007 
and has completed additional coursework I I in New 
York. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that she satisfies at least three of the ten alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets any of these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets five of the ten criteria, which we will 
discuss in detail below. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she does not 
meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria and is not eligible for the requested benefit. 
1 The Petitioner also refers to her role as "Senior Creative Designer," while the Beneficiary states in her curriculum vitae 
that she works for the Petitioner as an "Art Director." 
2 The Petitioner has not pursued its initial claim that the Beneficiary meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which 
requires evidence of published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the individual's work in the field. Therefore, we consider this criterion to be waived. See Matter of R-A­
M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse 
decision, that issue is waived). 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on her receipt of the I I ~-~I Graphic Design Award in 2007. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
the Beneficiary's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting 
the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the criteria used to 
grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, 
and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a certificate from thel !Graphic Design 
A wards indicating that the Beneficiary "was awarded for First Place in the I I category for 
her work on the book I I"' The Petitioner also submitted a summary 
translation of an announcement of the award winners published by the contest's sponsor! I I L a Brazilian paper company. The announcement describes the award as "the largest cash 
prize award in the graphic design industry in Brazil," and notes that "the idea behind the competition 
is to use the innovative! !paper as raw material for product creation." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director instructed the Petitioner to provide certified English 
translations of these documents and additional evidence to establish that the award is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field of endeavor. As noted by the Petitioner on appeal, the Director 
incorrectly stated in his decision that the Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include additional 
evidence related to th~ I Graphic Design A ward. 
The Petitioner's response included articles published by Portal da Propaganda 
(portaldapropaganda.com.br), Cosmetica News, and designbrasil.org.br. The Petitioner did not 
provide any information regarding these publications and we cannot determine that the awards 
announcement received national or widespread coverage in the media. 
The articles confirm that cash prizes were awarded to first, second and third place finishers in four 
traditional categories ~ lus ), that a single "Signature 
Piece" award winner received an international trip, and that winners in the student category received 
technolog: Jroducts instead of cash. Although the articles mention the Beneficiary was the winner of 
thd~ ___ ____._category, they do not indicate that she received a cash award or other prize. The article 
published by designbrazil.org.br identifies I landl I as "the big winners" of the 
20071 IA ward. 
Another article from designbrasil.org.br, written about the launching of th~ I 
Graphic Design Awards in 2006, mentions that the awards are open to any design professionals who 
have developed graphic print pieces on certain trademarked! I papers. This article also mentions 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
that although winners are chosen by a jury, the 'jury's assessment is not guided by predetermined 
criteria." 
Upon review of this evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary's 
first place certificate is a nationally or internationally award or prize for excellence in her field. The 
Petitirer emobasizes on appeal that the Beneficiary "received First Place in thel !category 
at the I Graphic Design Award in Brazil in 2007, the largest cash prize award in the 
graphic design industry in Brazil." However, the evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that 
she received a cash prize. As noted, the evidence indicates that cash prizes were given in only four 
categories (Editorial, Packaging, Miscellaneous and Promotional) and identifies different first place 
winners in each of those categories. In fact, articles about the launching of the 2005 and 2008 editions 
of the competition indicate that the award categories are limited to these four "traditional categories" 
with a "student category" that was added in 2007. They do not mention the 1 I category. 
The list of 2007 winners identifies the first, second and third place winners in the "traditional 
categories," lists the Beneficiary as the winner in the 1 I' category, and below her, lists second 
and third place finishers in the "student category." It is unclear why there is no winner listed in the 
student category or why the other finishers in the Beneficiary's category are not listed in the results 
released by the competition's corporate sponsor. The evidence reflects that there were over 800 entries 
for the 2007 awards but does not indicate how many submissions were received in the Beneficiary's 
category compared to those categories that awarded cash prizes. 
Overall, while the Petitioner provided some evidence of media coverage of thel I Graphic 
Design Award, it did not provide sufficient evidence that the specific award rece1vea by the 
Beneficiary is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included evidence that the petitioning company received the I I Exhibit Booth Award" for l O I Booth" at the 2019 National I I 
Association Show 2019. The Petitioner provides photographs of the Beneficiary with the award at the 
show and indicates that she and her colleague "are the creative brains behind our award-winning booth 
design." 
In evaluating evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the focus should be on a beneficiary's 
receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 4 
Here, even if we determined that the Beneficiary, rather than the Petitioner, was the recipient of this 
National I I Association award, we note that it was granted in August 2019, more than one 
year after the petition was filed. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that a 
beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a 
petitioner may show that a beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In its initial supporting letter, the Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "has contributed significantly 
to the field of graphic design . . . having played a leading role in high-profile, original, and 
groundbreaking projects throughout her career." The Petitioner farther maintained that the 
Beneficiary's work "has become widely recognized" and has been emulated by other designers. The 
Petitioner submitted a letter from her current manager, as well as six letters from peers and former 
colleagues in the industry. While the authors praise the Beneficiary's talents and achievements and 
confirm that she has worked for prestigious firms with well-known clients, they did not identify a 
specific original contribution to the field or explain how her contributions have impacted or influenced 
the field. 
For example ______ _., a vice president and creative director atl I states that she 
regards the Beneficiary as "one of the most talented contemporary designers" and describes her as "an 
exceptional artist whose work merits praise from every comer of the industry."! !describes 
the Beneficiary's work as "elegant, groundbreaking and profoundly effective," but does not point to a 
specific contribution that is regarded as original and remarkably impactfol in their shared field. 
Similarly.I ICEO ofl I credits the Beneficiary with achieving "true 
originality without sacrificing the necessary attention to their clients' needs." He notes that her work 
has appeared in renowned advertising and marketing media but does not specify an original 
contribution or explain its major significance. 
The remaining letters were provided by the Beneficiary's former employers. I lof I I praises the "outstanding job" she did, noting that she showed "unusual competence in 
several design disciplines." I lofl I simply listed the duties the 
Beneficiary performed for his agency and noted several well-known companies that were among her 
clients. I lofl !praised the Beneficiary's work for exhibiting "a splendid 
approach to creative problem-solving and a unique vision of strategic brand values." Finally, D I I ofi I described her role with his company, identified some of her clients, 
praised the "outstanding" results she achieved, and praised her ability "to seamlessly interlace beauty 
with innovative concepts and to consistently produce stunning work." The submitted letters praise the 
Beneficiary's abilities, the outstanding quality of her work, and her successes working with well­
known brands. However, they do not identify an original contribution that has had a major impact or 
influence on the field. Letters that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 
do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 
After receiving an RFE advising that the initial letters lacked specificity and did not identify the 
significance of the Beneficiary's contributions in the field, the Petitioner submitted two additional 
letters. The first, a new letter froml lstated that the Beneficiary's creative work for the 
Petitioner "is defining thel !industry." As an example, she stated that the petitioning company 
"is a pioneer in the use o~ lart direction to showcase! ~ to consumers" and 
that the style "is now a reference point in the industry" that has been copied by competitors such as I l I I and I I I ~ farther describes the style as the Petitioner's 
"signature photography," and credits the Beneficiary as "the leading designer at the global creative 
and brand team that established this significant trend." 
While this letter is more specific than those provided at the time offilingJ I letter alone does 
not establish that the creative choice to use a particular photography style in an advertising campaign 
is an original contribution of major significance in the industry. The Beneficia['s portfolio indicates 
her involvement as an art director in the photography campaign referenced by I However, 
it is significant that none of the letters from the Petitioner mention the Beneficiary's use of j I D art direction" as an original contribution or mention its significance or influence. 
The second new letter provided in response to the RFE is froml I, an assistant professor 
of visual communications at University ofl 11 I states that the Beneficiary "is 
highly remarked as one of the top graphic designers in her field," noting that she has "the knowledge 
of working at agencies, but also at large corporations as a creative professional." She indicates that 
the Beneficia? was I invited to participate as a panelist at the American Academy of Advertising 
conference in 2018, and emphasizes that she "has developed groundbreaking work as an Art 
Director, Graphic Designer, and Creative Director for top-tier design firms and companies" with her 
work appearing in leading publications and at high-profile events. I I attests to the 
Beneficiary's professional successes and reputation in the industry but does not explain how she has 
made an original contribution that has been of major significance in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based oni--'t=h=e--'d=i=s """l=a...........ao=..f her work at the 
20171 !Festival, the International 05 in the 
I I' exhibition held at the m and the 2012 ~-~---~~ 
exhibition held at the.__ ______ _. in I I. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit qualifying evidence that meets the plain 
requirements of the regulation, after noting in the RFE that this criterion is limited to the "visual arts" 
and that the Beneficiary is "not a visual artist" who has created "tangible pieces of art that were on 
display at exhibitions or showcases." We disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary, 
whose work products include graphic artwork, is not a "visual artist." Further, the record contains 
evidence that several of the exhibitions listed above were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
We do, however, find insufficient evidence to establish that the Beneficia]'s work was displayed at 
the listed exhibitions. With respect to the Intemationall _ held in 2005, the record 
contains a letter frorri I , I llddressed to "Dear " indicating that "your artwork" was 
selected to be presented at the First International I I This letter, which is not dated and 
is not addressed to a named individual, does not corroborate the Petitioner's claim that the 
Beneficiary's work was displayed at the exhibition. 
Regarding thel I exhibition, the record contains an online public announcement of 
the exhibition published NY Daily News and several photographs of the works displayed at the exhibit. 
However, the announcement does not mention the Beneficiary and the artwork was displayed without 
any identifying information about the participating artists. 
The l O I is described as an exhibition that featured 75 graphic design firms ine=] 
Dand included "original work and portraits submitted by each studio." The Petitioner stated that 
the exhibition included "extraordinary graphic design work" created by the Beneficiary but did not 
provide corroborating evidence in support of this claim. The Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
the exhibition website confirming that the Beneficiary's former employer, .__ ________ __, 
was one of the participating design firms. The screenshot contains background information about the 
studio and photographs of its 20 employees, including the Beneficiary. However, this evidence does 
not establish that the exhibition featured a display of the Beneficiary's artistic work. 
Finally, the Petitioner describes thel !Festival as "the most important advertising event in 
the industry," and indicates that the Beneficiary "in collaboration withl twas responsible for 
creating a "designated space, visual materials, interactive videos and overall experience featured and 
exhibited to over 16k attendees." In her }ortfolio, the Beneficiary indicates that she was responsible 
for the creative direction fo~~----~'s cabana at the I I Festival." The Beneficiary 
states in her curriculum vitae that she worked as a designer and art director fo~ I from 2016 
to 2017. While she may have been responsible for creative aspects of her employer's presence at the I I Festival, the evidence does not establish that this advertising industry event qualifies as 
an "artistic exhibition or showcase" intended to display artistic work of individual artists. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient corroborating evidence to establish that the 
Beneficiary has displayed her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary has held a ritical role wirin its organizrion, p.ellas., 
with her former employers, I I.__ ____ ~ I and L__J 
7 
.__ _______ ___. Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a beneficiary has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 7 
Although the Petitioner submitted letters from some of the Beneficiary's former employers, those 
letters were not detailed and did not contain specific information as to how the Beneficiary's role was 
leading or critical. For example,.__ _____ __,of stated that the Beneficiary's 
"innovative work has been instrumental to our brand's evolution" and~-------' simply listed 
her duties and clients, noting that she performed "above and beyond our expectation." Although the 
letters confirm the Beneficiary's employment, they do not reflect detailed, probative information 
demonstrating the specific nature and outcomes of her roles with the respective businesses. The record 
also lacks supporting evidence establishing the distinguished reputation of the companies that 
previously employed the Beneficiary. 
However, we find that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on 
her current role as a senior creative designer for the petitioning company. The Petitioner's response 
to the RFE included two detailed letters explaining the Beneficiary's critical role in creating the re­
branding strategy for the company's! lbrand I I, including a letter from the 
company's Global Creative Director. These letters included comprehensive descriptions of her duties, 
specific examples of projects and campaigns she led, and financial information demonstrating the 
importance of the brand to the company's overall success. The record also contains ample 
documentation establishing the distinguished reputation of the petitioning company. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on her current annual salary of 
$107,949. She earned this salary as a senior creative designer or "Creative Designer II" at the time of 
filing. 8 
To establish that the Beneficiary has a commanded a "high salary" in relation to others, the Petitioner 
submitted her recent pay statements and comparative wage data for "Graphic Designers." The initial 
evidence, obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Federal Labor Certification Data Center 
(www.flcdatacenter.com), shows a "Level 4 Wage" of $80,205 for graphic designers in thel I 
I larea. 
The Petitioner later provided additional pay statements and the Beneficiary's 2018 IRS Form W-2 
reflecting $112,461 in wages. It also submitted an updated Level 4 wage for the occupation of 
"graphic designer" in I 1($82,326) and provided wage information from the DOL's 
Occupational Employment and Statistics (OES) website indicating that the 90th percentile wage for 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 The record reflects that the Beneficiary subsequently received a raise to an annual salary of$135,000. As discussed, the 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of 
the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
8 
graphic designers nationwide is $85,760. Finally, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from 
Payscale.com for the position of "Senior Graphic Designer" in .... l ___ __.I indicating a median salary 
of $76,360 and a 90th percentile salary of $98,000. 
The Director observed that the wage information provided for "graphic designers" does not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's salary is high compared to that of other "senior creative designers." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide any objective earnings data showing how 
her salary is high compared to others performing similar work, and therefore found that this criterion 
was not met. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that its submission of the Level IV wage for graphic 
designers and the Payscale.com data for senior graphic designers was sufficient to meet its burden. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary's position "falls under the DOL's 
standard occupational classification of Graphic Designers (27-1024)." As noted, the Petitioner 
submitted a copy of the Beneficiary's curriculum vitae in support of the petition, in which she refers 
to her role with the Petitioner as an "Art Director" and her portfolio, which describes her role as an 
"art director" or "creative director" for various campaigns and projects with the Petitioner. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided a detailed description of the Beneficiary's duties as a 
senior creative desiJner. The Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary spends 30% of her time leading 
a creative team in I developing communications on a global basis as well as being 
responsible for creative concepts, design and execution of local and global campaigns that include 
video and photoshoots, advertising, social media and websites. The Petitioner assigns an additional 
20% of her time to "team management" indicating that she "guides a team of creatives" and oversees 
creative and brand work. Her other stated responsibilities include developing brand strategy for co­
marketing campaigns and communications with I I chains and providing creative 
strategy regarding print and digital media designs. 
The DOL's description of the Graphic Designer occupation states that this position will "design or 
create graphics to meet specific commercial or promotional needs, such as packaging, displays or 
logos, and "may use a variety of mediums to achieve artistic or decorative effects." The Beneficiary's 
duties, as stated in the record, go well beyond creating graphics. In fact, the Petitioner's claim that 
she serves in a critical role for the company is based on her wide-ranging leadership responsibilities 
for many creative aspects of one of its most important brands. 
Therefore, we conclude that the salary data provided for graphic designers did not allow for a 
comparison of the Beneficiary's salary as a senior creative designer "in relation to others in the field." 
See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). While her field may include "graphic design," the record does not establish that she is 
currently performing the duties of the "graphic designer" position described in the submitted wage 
surveys. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary receives a high salary 
in relation to others in her field. 
9 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary has been granted 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on her behalf: the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard, statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18459599 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an ecology thought leader and activist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder of a non-profit organization in his native I l .__ ______ __. I ~ through which he romotes his theories relatin to climate chan e. The record 
shows that these theories relate to th and 
that he also uses his foundation to promote his claims to have predicted the occurrence of 
solved "the mystery of the I I" and decoded hidden messages in =====:-=.,....A-lt-ho_u_g_,h 
he initially made vague references to wildfires in the Western United States, in responding to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) the Petitioner stated that he intends to establish his non-profit 
organization in the United States to "work[ing] on environmental education and ecological awareness, 
primarily with Hispanic communities, to stop climate change." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material about him and his work in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, his original contributions of major significance to his field, and his leading role for 
organizations having a distinguished reputation. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that he does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, material must be published in a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, and must be about a petitioner and relate to their work 
in their field of expertise. In addition, the evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
2 
material, and evidence in a foreign language must comply with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3) relating to full English language translations. 
As noted by the Director in his decision, the Petitioner submitted several articles which were published 
in a variety of mainly Argentine publications, many of which appeared to be about him and his work 
with th~ I However, in many cases the English translations which accompanied 
these articles clearly did not include a translation of the entire original foreign-language material, and 
in all cases the translator's attestation did not verify that the translations were complete and were 
therefore not compliant with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). As such, he concluded that this material could 
not be considered in the analysis of this criterion. Other deficiencies in this evidence were also 
identified by the Director in both his RFE and his decision to deny, including missing information 
about the name of the publication, the date of publication and the author, which in many cases was 
represented by hand-written notes which could not be verified. In addition, the Director concluded 
that the information regarding these publications was not sufficient to show that they were one of the 
qualifying types of media under this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially focuses on articles which appeared in the newspapers El Liberal and 
La Prensa, and submits new versions of some previously submitted articles together with new English 
translations. We note that other articles were also resubmitted with compliant English translations and 
translator certificates in response to the Director's RFE. An article in La Prensa published oH I P 2015 is about the 201tj !conference which was organized by the Petitioner and held in 
._ ______ _,,[ Uruguay and includes information about and comments from the Petitioner. He also 
submits a new letter from El Liberal which identifies the author of three previously submitted articles 
published in 2012 and 2013. Each of these three articles are about the Petitioner and his work as a 
climate change activist, and each is accompanied by a complete English translation and translator 
certification. 
Regarding the issue of whether these newspapers are professional or major publications or other major 
media, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director ignored evidence regarding the status and 
circulation of these two newspapers. 1 This evidence includes a translated excerpt from El Boletin 
Express, which the evidence indicates is published by an Argentinean organization called "IVC", 
listing circulation data for several Argentinean publications as of September 2012.2 In addition, an 
article from pressreference.com printed on March 12, 2020 provides information on the press market 
in Argentina as well as circulation figures for some publications. The IVC publication lists the 
circulation of El Liberal as approximately 25,000 on Sundays and 24,000 during the week, which is a 
fraction of the circulation listed for other publications such as Clarin (600,000 and 270,000) and La 
Nacion (356,000 and 176,000). In addition, the article from pressreference.com does not list this 
newspaper under the heading 'Top Ten Daily Newspapers" or in its list of "the 10 largest national 
newspapers." 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the 
publication is, as well as the title, date and author of the material.) 
2 The organization's website, www.ivc.org.ar, indicates that it is the Circulation Verification Institute and is "the most 
important organization in the advertising market in our country. The media are associated with the IVC so that a 
professional organization supports their circulation figures ... " 
3 
Turning to La Prensa, while the above evidence does list that newspaper as one of the ten largest in 
Argentina, the Petitioner indicated in his initial submission that this article appeared in a Uruguayan 
publication of the same name, and has not submitted information regarding its circulation. Although 
figures regarding website visitation were submitted, the Petitioner does not explain how these show 
www.seminariolaprensa.com to be a major medium, and we note that the figures are far below those 
shown in reports about other websites in the record. Therefore, as the Petitioner has not claimed that 
either newspaper qualifies as a professional or major trade publication, and the evidence does not 
establish that they qualify as major media, none of these materials qualify under this criterion. 
Other materials submitted with proper translations and translator certifications, both in response to the 
Director's RFE and on appeal, do not qualify under this criterion for a variety ofreasons. Articles in 
Critica De La Argentina, La Columna and Uno are about the Petitioner and his work, but the record 
does not include information about them which includes circulation figures, and thus does not establish 
that they are major media. 
The Petitioner also refers to evidence relating to a radio program hosted by the Petitioner,_! ____ _. I I in particular two reference letters. The first was from the General 
Manager of I I a radio station inl I who indicates that the station has 
transmitted the Petitioner's program since 2011. While the letter describes the program as "one of the 
most listened by the audience," no information to support this statement is provided. Another letter 
regarding this program was written byl I who states that he is the program's artistic 
producer. He describes it as focusing on "environmental, new technologies, ecology, healthy leaving 
[sic] and the best music of all times," and claims that it is broadcast "in 225 radios [sic] in 16 countries 
around the world." He also provides a list of radio stations which air the program, but the record 
includes confirmation and information about very few of the listed stations. In addition to the letter 
froml I an undated article in Seminario La Prensa, which is also not accompanied by a 
proper translator's certification, lists only 12 radio stations which broadcast the Petitioner's program. 
No farther evidence is provided regarding these stations, and the Petitioner has therefore not 
established that I I is or was published or broadcast on a major medium. In addition, 
we note that while the record shows that the Petitioner is the executive producer and host of this 
program, and that it focuses on the~---------~ regarding climate change, it has not 
been established that the program is about the Petitioner. 
The second letter highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal came from! I Chief of 
Content for I I in Argentina. He states in a letter dated June 1, 2015 that I I in I !Argentina has been broadcasting I since 2010, describing this weekly program 
~icro." No farther information is provided in this letter or elsewhere in the record aboutl I 
l___Jorl I As with the Petitioner's radio program, the evidence does not demonstrate that 
this "micro" is or was broadcast on a major medium, or that it was about him and his work. 
The Petitioner also included what appears to be a screenshot from the Y ouTube channel of D I I showing him being interviewed regarding al I race inl I However, as 
with the other materials initially submitted, this evidence is accompanied by an incomplete transcript 
of the interview in English, as well as an improper translator's certification. In addition, even if we 
were to consider the content of this transcript as being about the Petitioner and his work, he has not 
4 
established thatl I is a major medium in Argentina. The record includes a partially 
translated media kit that appears to combine viewership statistics across multiple platforms and social 
media, but does not include a basis by which to determine that these statistics show thatl I 
is a major medium. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion. 
B. Additional Criteria 
As we noted above, the Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he meets two additional criteria. 
However, since we have concluded that he does not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
he cannot meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria to establish that he satisfies the initial evidentiary 
requirement for this classification, and we therefore reserve these issues. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9895142 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he would 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed as an actor on various television shows. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled the following three criteria: 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Although the record shows that the Petitioner meets the 
published material criterion, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the Director's 
decision relating to the awards and leading or critical role criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. In order to fulfill this criterion, a 
petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/HTML /PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner claimed eligibili for this criterion based on the followin three awards: 1) 20130 
A ward for "Original Song 2 2008 A ward for "Best I I Performance," and 3) 2013 .__ _________ _, for ~-----~ Actor of 
the Year." Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we will withdraw the Director's dete1mination for this criterion. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on a 20130Award 
for "Original Songl t The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires the alien to 
receive nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence "in the field of 
endeavor. "3 Here, the Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability as an actor. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that an award for an "original song" represents an award 
in his field of endeavor, acting. See Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a 
finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of expertise because it is 
reasonable to interpret continuing to work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" as working in the 
same profession in which one has extraordinary ability, not necessarily in any profession in that field). 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that his 2013 Inter Award qualifies for this criterion. 
Regarding the 2008 !Award for "Bestl I Performance," the record 
contains screenshots from a rumberos.net article that reported on the 2009 award ceremony.4 
However, the Petitioner did demonstrate how a single article constitutes a level of media coverage 
consistent with a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. In fact, the 
article mainly reports oli !Internacional receiving the most awards and references the ceremony 
as "the fourth edition of the award" and "[t]he results of this award are the result of the popular vote, 
made through the site wwwl 1 lcom, from 10 December 2008 until 20 January 
this year" without any indication of the field's view for any of these recently established, popular vote 
awards, llt alone the Petitioner's specific I I award. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not show that 
his "Best ]Performance" award represents a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
As it pertains to his 2013~---------~for j ~ctor of the Year," the 
Petitioner submitted a photograph of a plaque. In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
a I I article entitled, "Know the difference between the Gold, Silver and Platinum I I I I' Specifically, the article states: 
This prize is which represents the birds of the city .... I ___ ___, D and in th._e_t-ai-1,....----------'( as an icon inherited from the first prize that was 
previously awarded at the festival The basis of these is wood. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 The record also contains nearly identical recommendation letters from I I andl [ who confirmed 
the Petitioner's receipt of the award but did not provide any further information establishing the national or international 
significance of the award in the field. 
5 The photograph of the trophy indicates that the Petitioner received 1,362 popular votes. 
3 
A tthel IF estival, the Sil.Y!!!I ~esen~, one of the most outstanding 
awards granted by the public of the I •'------'~ to an artist. 
The Golden LJ means one of the most important prizes of thcl._ _____ ___, 
Festival and takes its name for the mineral with which it is bathed, so it is a prize of 
greater hierarchy with respect to the Silveri O I 
The Platinum I I is the maximum prize awarded iJ I as it is 
manufactured and delivered exclusively to artists who have an outstanding musical 
career. 
In the case here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a Goldenl~ _ ___,I fi urine with a 
wooden base as outlined in the article; rather he received a plaque. Furthermore, the .__ _ ____,....------,1 
article makes no mention of the Petitioner's plaque, nor does it show the significance of a I I Actor of the Year" award in the field. In addition, while the article discus~se-s-th-e~ 
relationship of the I I awards to the festival, the Petitioner did not establish that his I I I I Actor of the Year" I I represents a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the field beyond the festival. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As indicated earlier, the Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. 
Relating to a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 6 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an alien contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 7 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner provided 
sufficient documentary evidence showing that he fulfills this criterion; therefore, the Director's 
determination for this criterion will be withdrawn. 
The Director concluded that "[t]he letters froml 11 land,._____,,-,----------' I I all indicate that the etitioner is considered critical to their organizations and as holding al 
leadin role for The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
president and e~· ucer l_~--~7, who stated that the Petitioner 
"was part of the main cast of the Seri~~-__ ___,!,in which I I was the 
production company." Moreover, indicated that the Petitioner "has a leading role in 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id. 
4 
~--_.I and is critical to the success of the show" and ''-we are counting on [the Petitioner] to be 
available for future season's with " Furthermore, the Petitioner provided a 
letter from I I supervising produc who discussed that the Petitioner "has 
been playing a critical role of our productions .__ __ _. for~----" and the Petitioner "was 
selected to play to role of n ... the writers and producers of the show decided that [the Petitioner] 
should also play I ==I an antagonistic character in the stmy." 
In addition, the record includes other recommendation letters pointing out his role with I 
For instance, I I who stated that she "worked with [the Petitioner] on wh .... at_w_a_s_t_h_,e 
realization of the most recent series, I I. in which [she] worked as an acting 
coach." Moreover, ~----:..,_, __ _.indicated that the Petitioner "has contributed to the growth and 
success of the show .__ __ _." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the alien to perform in a leading or critical role 
for "organizations or establishments." Here, the letters reference the Petitioner's roles with I , I 
a television show, rather demonstrating how he performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish how a television show 
qualifies as an organization or establishment consistent with this regulatory criterion. Furthelmore, I 
the recommendation letters do not further elaborate and explain how the Petitioner's roles on D evidenced into a leading or critical role forl I orl I. 8 The letters, for instance, 
do not show that the Petitioner held a leadership position with the companies, nor do they articulate 
how he was responsible for their successes or standings. 
Similarly, the Petitioner argues on appeal that he "also performed in significant roles for the television 
show j t and "his performances as a leading character . . . are extremely 
significant, given the fact that this television show is aired on the topl !television 
network, I I' Although he presents evidence signifying his character role on the television 
show, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how this role demonstrates that he performed in a leading or 
critical for an organization or establishment, including I I The Petitioner, for example, did 
not show the leading nature of his television role to the network or that he was essential in contributing 
to the successes o~ I 
As it relates toe=] the Petitioner does not mention his relationship or role with the talent agency on 
appeal. Nevertheless, the record contains a letter from I president, who claimed 
that the Petitioner "has played a critical role for our organization and has established himself as one 
of the few actors that are internationally re1ogniyd for his talent and extraordinary ability." While I !listed several productions that contracted with the Petitioner, she did not provide ~c, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for 
L__J Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of 
proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). In addition, 
the Petitioner did not establish thatOenjoys a distinguished reputation. 9 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfied this criterion, we withdraw the Director's 
decision for this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USC IS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. 724 F. Supp. 
at 1108, ajfd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perfmming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a '·career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has performed as an actor, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 10 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) of 
the Act, and we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required 
to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 
I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10634402 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , who asserts to be a "sponsor-investigator ," seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
which require documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. We affirmed the Director's decision, and subsequently reaffirmed our findings 
in three motion decisions between 2013 and 2020.1 
The matter is now before us for the fourth time on a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 2 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner established that he met only one criterion, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is ID# 5301337 (AAO Jan. 15, 2020). 
In our most recent decision denying the Petitioner's third motion to reconsider, we found that the 
Petitioner made the same previous arguments without demonstrating how we improperly adjudicated 
his third motion as a matter of law or policy. In addition, we concluded that although he presented 
evidence in the form ofregulations from the United States Food and Drug Administration and a final 
rule from the United States Department of Health and Human Services relating to a responsible party 
for a clinical, the Petitioner did not explain and establish how they demonstrated his eligibility for any 
additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner submits 
an almost identical brief that he previously submitted in support of his third motion and makes the 
same, previous arguments without demonstrating how we improperly adjudicated his third motion as 
a matter oflaw or policy. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter 
oflaw or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider 
our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
As the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we incorrectly denied his most recent motion, he did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny his motion 
to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reopen must state 
new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board of 
Immigration Appeals' (the Board) definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2( c)(l) (stating that a motion 
to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been 
discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the 
evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret 
"new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been 
2 
previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously 
stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." 
In the current motion, the Petitioner offers the same previously submitted documentation that he 
provided in support of his third motion. As this evidence does not qualify as "new" and we already 
evaluated it in earlier proceedings, we will not farther consider it in this proceeding. Accordingly, we 
will deny his motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly denied his most recent motions based on the record 
before us, nor does he support the motion with new facts and evidence, establishing that he fulfills at 
least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8745561 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in tourism. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstra te recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the ve1y top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner serves as board chairman and general manager o ...._ _____________ __, 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two criteria: leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on nine awards. In order to fulfill this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
The record shows that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the rankings of ranked 
79th (2017) and 95th (2018) in thel ITop 100 ranked 7th in the ~ol !Agencies in 2018, and ranked 12th in the 2017 
L_JCompanies Market Value List. Although he submitted a letter from ~===-=-~-=--..--..--~"T"o_e_s_n_o--,1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML /PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
identify the author, crediting him for the company obtaining the rankings, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate his receipt of the rankings. The description of this type of evidence the regulation 
provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt, as opposed to his or employer's receipt. 3 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that such rankings qualify as nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence consistent with this regulatory criterion. 4 
Regarding the remaining six awards, the Petitioner indicates in his brief to "See also Exhibits 23 -25 
of RFE [request for evidence]." (emphasis in original). However, these referenced exhibits relate to 
the rankings discussed above and do not show evidence pertaining to these awards. Nevertheless, the 
record reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence under other exhibits relating to these awards. 
Although he includes quotation references and alludes to evidence, the Petitioner does not specifically 
identify the documentation. If it is the Petitioner's contention that certain documentation establishes his 
eligibility for a particular award, he does not articulate or distinguish the exhibits in this regard. Moreover, 
the Petitioner argues that each award "is a national level award whose scope covers all ofl I The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field rather than simply national or international level awards. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received the "Influential Figure in Tourism of the Year" and "Most 
Inventive Figure" froml !Tourism Billboard in 2016. The Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
various websites regarding the creation of the I !Tourism Billboard. For instance, screenshots from 
sohu.com stated that "[t]hd c:::!iourism Billboard was jointly launched b~ I and 
Tourism I land more than 20 most influential mainstream I across the runtry."1 
While several websites refer to thel I Tourism Billboard awards "as the Oscar Award in 
tourism industry" (travel.hexun.com), none of them explain or justify this assertion. Furthermore, besides 
listing the Petitioner as the winner of both awards, the websites do not discuss the significance of the 
Petitioner's specific awards in the field. In addition,! !Tourism Billboard distributed awards in 25 
categories with multiple winners in each category. For instance, the Petitioner received the "Influential 
Figure in Tourism of the Year" along with 13 other winners. On appeal, the Petitioner states that "[t]he 
award first takes place in fmalist from several provinces before the final award is selected from the 
finalists of all of the rovinces" and presents screenshots from four websites regarding the "2015 
Tourism Brand " "2016 Tourism Br~wards I t' ~"2=0"'"'1"""6'-'-------1 
Tourism Brand Awards~----~' and the "2017l__JTourism Brand Awards '--~~-.,......... Awards." Again, the issue for this criterion is not whether the award is national in scope but whether the 
award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Moreover, the documentation 
does not reference the standing of the "Influential Figure in Tourism of the Year" and "Most Inventive 
Figure" awards in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted screenshots from several websites showing that he was one of nine 
individuals to receive the "Top Ten Figures of the Year of 2016" from the firstl IA ward at the I I Tourism I !Annual Summit. However, he did not demonstrate the field's 
recognition of this recently established award. On appeal, the Petitioner provides screenshots from 
dy.163.com promoting the ceremony and screenshots from sohu.com reporting on another individual who 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, sufra, at 6. 
4 The letter also lists seven other awards thatl claims to have received; however, the Petitioner did not establish 
that he received them, nor did he show that they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
3 
received al I Award. Again, the screenshots do not discuss the significance ofreceiving a "Top 
Ten Figures of the Year" award by the field or its recognition as a national or international award for 
excellence in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he was named as one of the "20161 !Tourism 
Top Ten Business Leaders" b~ I The record contains screenshots fromOcom describing 
the awards ceremony, including listing each of the winners. However, the Petitioner did not establish that 
field recognizes the 1 !Tourism Top Ten Business Leader" as a national or international award for 
excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner submits screenshots from two websites reporting on two 
other individuals who received the award and screenshots from mini.eastday.com that covered the 
ceremony. While the screenshots described the events of the ceremony, including the selection process 
and winners, they do not discuss the national or international significance ofreceiving a 'I I Tourism 
Top Ten Business Leader" award in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field beyon~ I 
Moreover, the record reflecls that the Petitioner received the "20 I 7 Most syi~ly }es:onsible Leader" 
from the I I Evening News. The Petitioner offered evidence about the Evening News and 
from the publication indicating the winners from the 60th Anniversary of Evening News 
celebration. However, the screenshots do not mention the field's view of the "2017 Most Socially 
Responsible Leader" or establishes it as a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. 
The Petitioner does not offer any additional documentation regarding this award on appeal. Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that his award is recognized in his field as a national or international award 
for excellence outside ofthd !Evening News. 
Finally, the Petitioner received the "20171 I Tourism Award -[ f' 1, from National 
Tourism. The Petitioner submitted screenshots from websites about the award ceremony, including 
I I and I lcom reporting on the history of"[t]he scandal of 'ballot rigging,' 'canvass' has 
been frequently exposed" and "has been seriously affected by 'ballot rigging' and 'canvassing for votes."" 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such reputation and history represents a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner does not submit 
any additional documentation, and the record does not establish that the field recognizes his "2017 
I I Tourism Award-I t as a national or international award for excellence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that "[he] and I as a result of [his] leadership, are members of 
associations that requires outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national 
or international experts." In addition, he claims that I ~ is a member of the~ I I I and it was also cleared as Vice President Unit and I is 
represented by [him] as its legal representative." In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate his membership in an association, and show that membership in the association is based 
4 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The record contains a letter from I I secretary general of , who indicated that "[t]he 
~--~~ouristic led by the Petitioner] is a Member Unit of " Further, the record includes 
a ce1iificate showing that" is the Vice President Unit o . " In addition, the Petitioner 
submitted the "Articles o.__ _____________ _.' reflecting in A1iicle 7 that "[t]he 
members of the association shall be member units, and individual members shall not be admitted." 
Therefore, the Petitioner is ineligible for membership withl I The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires the "alien's membership in associations" rather than a company's 
membership in associations. As such, the Petitioner did not establish his eligibility for this criterion 
by vi1iue ofl I's membership with I I 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I I requires outstanding 
achievements of it members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. According to I Is articlesJ bust recognize and support! Is constitution, be willing to join 
the association, and be established in ~ without a bad reputation. Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that such requirements are tantamount to "outstanding achievements" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. Although the articles indicate that membership is "[a]dopted by discussion of the 
Council or Standing Council, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Council or Standing Council 
is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that "[t]he aiiicles submitted discussed! I as a company" and ·I I 
is led and directed by [him] and I ~as attributed to its success, receipt of awards, etc. to [his] 
work at the company." In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published 
material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material. 6 Thus, published material about I ldoes not qualify for 
this criterion. 
At the outset, the Petitioner references "See Exhibits 1 -24 of Initial Submission." (emphasis in 
original). However, the record does not reflect the relationship between the majority of the exhibits 
and the published material criterion. For example, some of the exhibits relate to the Petitioner's 
passports,! Is business records, and recommendation letters. As discussed under the awards 
criterion, if it is the Petitioner's contention that ce1iain documentation establishes his eligibility for a 
5 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member. 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 
particular article, he does not articulate or distinguish the exhibits in this matter. Further, the inclusion of 
the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As indicated below, the Petitioner did not provide the date and/or author for the 
majority of the material. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the material was published 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 7 
The Petitioner submitted articles froml 11 ~ (no author), and I I (no 
author) reflecting interviews of him regarding! I and the I ~ndustry; none of the articles 
discuss him or are othe1wise about him. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulat01y 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Similarly, he included 
articles from kknews.com,r-7com (no author), and I I.com (no author) in which the Petitioner 
provided quotes on behalf~ ,I but the articles are not about him. 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided articles from I I (no aut,...h....;;o_r...._. ______ --.--____. 
I I l l(no date and no author),~--~-~-~ and I I (no author) reporting o~ I; in fact, the Petitioner is never ment10ne many of the 
articles and do not reflect published material about him. Further, the Petitioner offered screenshots of 
videos or television coverage from I 1 ~ ~ate and no author),! l(no date and no author), I l (no date and no author), andl___J (no date and no author) without any transcripts of 
the videos to show published material about him; nevertheless, the videos appear to be aboutl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an article froml I which includes the title and date, reflecting 
published material about him. However, the Petitioner did establish the author of the website article. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I I is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.8 For 
example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
The Petitioner argues: 
• 
• 
• 
• Under [his] leadershlip anl direction, I I launched the experience shop which was 
popularly received in and the tourism industry. 
Under [his] leadership and direction,! I has launched brand new cruise ship tours that 
have never been taken before and which have promoted cultural exchanges between I I ~nd 
other countries. ~--~ 
Und~r [his] leadership and direction,! I has created new routes and provided exclusive 
services. 
Under [his] leadership and direction.I lhas grown to be a successful company that is 
listed on the stock market and worth hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Here, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his contributions tol I rather 
than the majorly significant impact or influence those those contributions have had in the field.9 
Furthe1more, although he references recommendation letters and submits Internet media articles 
showin~ I's activities, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how those business actions have been 
of major significance in the tourism industry. For instance, I. k )fttter indicated that the 
Petitioner "pioneered the concept of 'tourism experience store' in~travel industry in 2013, 
which combines the tourism life with the tourism culture to inspire thel I consumers' good 
wishes for travel." However,! I did not further elaborate and explain how the "tourism 
experience store" significantly impacted the tourism field. Further, while the Petitioner presents 
Internet media articles reporting on the recent opening of the stores, the articles do not reflect how the 
stores have affected the field in a majorly significant manner. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show howl Is launching of new cruise ship tours or creating 
new tourism routes has been viewed in the field as being majorla significant. The Petitioner references 
letters and submits screenshots reflecting various examples o _ Is tour packages and events, 
such as Olympic venues; 46-day cruise ship tour around the South Pacific; cruise ship tours around 
I Is four seas; and tour packages for the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Denmark, and the United 
States. While these may be new ventures for I I the Petitioner did not establish the originality 
of offering cruise ship tours and vacation destinations through a tourism agency. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of these offerin s in the field. For example, the 
Petitioner provides an article froml !indicating that si ned a contract with the 
National Football League to "become the first tourism enterprise in.__ _ ___.conducting commercial 
operation of [S]uper [B]owl ticket." Here, the Petitioner did not show the impact that this offering, or 
any other ofl Is promotional orLJ packages, has had on the field to be considered a 
contribution of major significance. 
Finally, the Petitioner did not establish ho~ ts listing on the stock market and company value 
reflect an original contribution of major significance in the field. While he references letters that praise I ~ s reputation and repeats various tour packages, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how being 
listed on the stock market constitutes an original contribution in the field, let alone a contribution of 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 
major significance. He did not show, for example, hoJ Is stock market presence or value has 
significantly impacted or influenced the field in a major way. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Further, we 
considered the Petitioner's arguments and documentation under the leading or critical role criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience in the tourism industry, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10728911 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an ice rink business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , an ice skating coach and 
choreographer , as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
not received a one-time achievement and had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulatio n 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary competed as a figure skater and has been employed by the Petitioner as an ice skating 
coach and choreographer. 1 In denying the petition, the Director detennined that the Beneficiary did 
not receive a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and she did not satisfy 
any of the Petitioner's four claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert the Beneficiary's eligibility for a one-time achievement and 
maintains that the Beneficiary fulfills the previously claimed four criteria, including two additional 
ones. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support 
a determination that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 We note that the USCIS Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and 
has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider 
the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM ch. 22.22(i)(l )(C) (emphasis in original). See https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f (informing that 
in May 2020, USCIS retired its AFM, a collection of immigration policies and procedures, and it will be updated and 
incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual, the agency's centralized online repository for immigration policies. Until 
then, any remaining AFM content has been moved to its corresponding Policy Manual Part). 
2 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that the beneficiaiy received the prizes 
or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary "was the winner of thd I in Individual Sports for 
her accomplishments as a figure skater and artistic choreography" and submits screenshots from 
I I.fr without any English language translations. Any document in a foreign language must 
be accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(3 ). The translator 
must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not 
submit a certified English language translation, the screenshots have no probative and evidentiary 
value. 
Further, the Petitioner provides a 2001 article from Les J1iformalions Die~poises, reporting on the 12th 
Annual I I Award Night "to honor the athletes from [France] and the surrounding 
area." Although the article shows that the Beneficiary received an award in the "Other Individual" 
sports category, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the si,nificance of the award in the field. The 
article does not reflect the field's view of al Award as a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that reporting 
of the awards ceremony from a single paper signifies a level of media coverage of a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence. In fact, the article indicates a locally recognized 
award rather than a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion for the first time on appeal that the 
Beneficiary "belonged to FFSG (Federation Francaise des Sports de Glace)" and submits an affidavit 
from the Ministry of Youth, Education, and Research stating that the Beneficiary "is registered on the 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
list of elite athletes ... in thel lcategory for the period from I 12003 tol 12004," 
which is recognized on the recommendation of FFSG. Further, the Petitioner provides a 2005 letter 
from the Ministry of Youth, Sports, and Associations indicating "re gist[ ration] on the list of elite 
athletes."4 In addition, the Petitioner presents a 2004 afiidavit from the National Institute of Sport and 
Physical Education reflecting that the Beneficiary "is enrolled in our institute as an elite athlete for the 
2003/2004 school year and that she attends classes atl t 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(ii), a petitioner must show that membership 
in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that membership with FFSG requires outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. The Petitioner, for example, did not provide the bylaws 
or other membership requirements to show that outstanding achievements are a condition of 
membership, and the judging of membership is comprised of recognized national or international 
experts. Here, the Petitioner's evidence is insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements of this 
criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on material from L 'Echo Republican, Patin age 
Magazine, and Les Information Dieppoises. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 6 
The record contains an article from L 'Echo Republican. However, the article is about an ice show 
featuring two other figure skaters. In fact, the Beneficiary is never mentioned, and the article does not 
reflect published material about the Beneficiary relating to her work. Articles that are not about an 
alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See. e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ 
at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the 
actor). Further, the Petitioner did not include the required author of the material. The inclusion of the 
title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the record includes two photographs of the Beneficiary from Patinage Magazine. 
However, the Petitioner did not establish how photographs represent published material about the 
4 The letter is addressed to "Dear Sir/Madam" and does not indicate the letter's recipient. 
5 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member. 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 
Beneficiary relating to her work. Further, the Petitioner did not include the title and author of the 
material. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner submitted seven articles from Les Information Dieppoises. 
While six of the articles show published material about the Beneficiary, one article j I 
I I does not. Specifically, the article discusses thd IOlympic Club with the Beneficiary 
mentioned one time as bein one of the com etitors. Moreover, with the exception of one article 
~-------------------------~ the remaining articles do not 
contain the date and/or author of the material. Thus, the Petitioner provided one aiticle reflecting 
published material about the Beneficiary relating to her work that contains the title, date, and author. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that Les Information Dieppoises qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 7 Although the Petitioner asserts the 
circulation figures and background information for Les Information Dieppoises, as well as for L 'Echo 
Republican and Patinage Magazine, the Petitioner does not support its assertions with corroborating 
evidence. While the Petitioner claims that Les Information Dieppoises has a reader circulation of 
25,000, the Petitioner did not establish the significance of these numbers resulting in the status as a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Further, according to the Petitioner, 
Les Information Dieppoises is a regional level newspaper in France rather than a major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion for the first time on appeal. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asse1ts that the Beneficiaiy "is a member of Ice Skating Institute [ISI] in 
the United States, and completed her ce1tification as a judge" and provides a certificate from ISI 
reflecting the Beneficiary's judging accreditation. 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that the alien has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the alien actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others in the same of allied field of specialization. 8 Although the certificate demonstrates the 
Beneficiary's qualification to judge, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary actually 
participated as a judge consistent with this regulatory criterion. The Petitioner, for instance, did not 
support the record with probative documentation reflecting the Beneficiary's judging experience at 
figure skating events or competitions. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Fmm I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, published material, and judging. Although the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As 
the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 9 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not suppmi a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Beneficiaiy competed as a figure skater and has 
choreographed events, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among 
the upper echelon in her field. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10730197 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed in his initial cover letter that " a s a Research Scientist, [he] work[ s] for the 
. "1 Because the Petitioner -----,-....,,.,....-......,...-----,,-..,...,.....,--..,........,,--.....,............,....------,--,---......,....-.,.....-----,-has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled the following three criteria: 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . Although the record shows that the Petitioner meets the scholarly 
articles criterion, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the Director's decision 
relating to the awards and published material criteria. 2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. In order to fulfill this criterion, a 
petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
1 However, according to his Fmm G-325A Rjograohjc Infowatjon the Petitioner )ired his current employment as an f ! for i since August 2016. 
2 Although the Petitioner references attachments in his brief, the record does not reflect that he submitted any exhibits or 
documentation accompanying his brief. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual .html. 
2 
limitations on competitors. 4 The Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on receiving I jof the Year -2016" and 'I O I of Russia" from the All-Russian 
competition. Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we will withdraw the Director's determination for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided a letter from I l president of the~I --~ 
'------------------------~ screenshots from Wikipedia, and a 
screenshot from aviationunion.org that described the history, competition requirements, and selection 
criteria. For instance, the screenshot from aviationunion.org indicated: 
I I of the year" is an annual competition to identify the best [ I to 
promote their employment, achievements and experience as the best I : I of the 
Russian Federation. The event has been held since 2000. Its organizers arf the I I 
the international _ I 
.__ ________ _. named after 
.__ _____ _. and the interregional social fund to facilitate Scientific and 
technological progress. The competition is held in two stages in 43 categories, each of 
which is sub-divided into l O O • } (under 30 years of age) and 
.__ _______ ~(participants with experience inl I positions of not 
less than 5 years). The winners are awarded with dir2lomas, commemoratives 
I ~ as well as certificates and signs I I of 
Russia." 
Although the evidence focuses on the com~etition, the Petitioner did not establish that the I I 
of the Year -2016" and I I of Russia" awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. Moreover, the documentation does not indicate the status, 
standing, or reputation of the awards in the field. Further, the Petitioner did not show the recognition 
of the awards beyond the organizers of the competition, such as widespread reporting and coverage 
from publications or other media in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance 
of the awards in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on memberships with the I.__ _____ __. 
.__ _______ _,and the International Academy of Technological Sciences (IATS). In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 5 
Regardingc=] the Petitioner submitted a letter froml L chief scientific secretary, who 
attached a document entitled "Reference," indicating that "[m]embers of the Academy are selected by 
the Competition Council for outstanding achievements in science and development with high scientific 
and technical value." The Petitioner, however, did not supplement the record with c01Toborating 
evidence, such as the official bylaws or other membership requirements, nor didl I provide 
or reference the source for the information. Furthermore, although the evidence reflects that selection 
to Os judged by the Competition Council and "[t]he decision is made by simple majority by open 
vote," the documentation does not show the composition of the Competition Council. Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Competition Council involves recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields as required by this criterion. 
Similarly, as it relates to IATS, the Petitioner presented a letter froml 11 I of 
IATS, who stated that "[ m ]embers of the Academy are Russian and foreign scientists who are major 
experts in the field of new high technologies that were elected for outstanding achievements in the 
field of basic and applied technological sciences." Again, the Petitioner did not support the record 
with corroborating bylaws or other membership documentation, nor did I I include the 
sources for his statement. 6 Moreover, while I I claimed that "[a]dmission to the Academy 
is carried out on the basis of a personal statement by the decision of the Academy Presidium, adopted 
by a simple majority of Presidium members who are present at the meeting, by open vote," the letter 
does not show that Presidium members are recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. In order to meet this criterion, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 7 Because the record does 
not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
we will withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
5 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member. 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 The record reflects that the Petitioner also submitted screenshots from Wikipedia regarding the founding and history of 
IATS; however, the screenshots do not reveal the membership or judging requirements of rATS. 
7 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on an article from 
Thermal Power and HPU and two aiiicles from Sel 'skaia Zhizn (Rural Life). 8 However, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that any of the articles show published material about him relating to his work. 
Rather, the articles discuss agricultural issues with the Petitioner's name briefly mentioned one time 
as developing new technology. For example, regarding the Thermal Power and HPU article, it 
discusses heat supply accidents, the need to improve the reliability of power supplies, and possible 
new technology. While the Petitioner is referenced one time as being credited for developing a new 
approach, the article does not discuss him, nor is it about him consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the aiiicles from Rural Life repmi on agricultural life, equipment, and production with the 
Petitioner's name indicated once in crediting him for creating a new concept. Here, the Petitioner did 
not establish that the articles represent published material about him relating to his work as required 
by this regulatory criterion. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See. e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, although he demonstrated that Thermal Power and HPU qualifies as a professional 
publication, the Petitioner did not establish that Rural Life classifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Specifically, the Petitioner presented a letter froml I I IJ I who indicated that the newspaper is a "social, political, and agrarian 
newspaper," "covers a wide range of issues of rural life, social, cultural and economic life of the 
Russian fa1mers," and has a circulation of "48 thousand copies." However, the Petitioner did not offer 
any independent, objective evidence to support the letter's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving asse1iions on the cover of 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not show that the intended audience is intended for professionals, nor did he demonstrate 
the significance of the claimed circulation figures for status as a major trade publication or other major 
medium.9 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. 10 As a result, we need not provide the type of 
8 In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed that he submitted "Pages 1 and 7 from 
Heat Energetics,! I" However, the record does not support his assertion that "Heat 
Energetics" published an article about him. In fact, the translation of the Thermal Power and HPU article contains the 
heading "Heat Energetics" and has the same volume, number, and date referenced by the Petitioner. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
10 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility for the original contributions criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner did not address this criterion or offer 
additional documentation. Moreover, the Petitioner does not contest this criterion on appeal. Accordingly, we consider 
5 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perfmming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and published his work, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4 711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10027559 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrati ve Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The matter is now before us on a motion to reconside r. Although she does not claim to file 
a motion to reopen, the Petitioner also submits new evidence. Accordingly , we will treat the new 
evidence as a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
1 See In Re: 4597661 (Dec. 18, 2019). 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
We determined that the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria: awards under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As such, we evaluated the totality of the evidence in the context of a final 
merits determination . 2 Based on this review, we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish her 
sustained national or international acclaim, 3 that she is among the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F .3d at 1119-20. 4 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner argues that we "dismissed [her] 
appeal, in part, because she did not include evidence of her lesser placements in competitive 
swimming" that "is an improper application of law." We determined that the Petitioner did not 
sufficiently document her swimming career establishing a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Specifically, "while the 
Petitioner presented evidence showing her finishes in selected tournaments and championships, she 
did not demonstrate her standings or results in the majority of her other swimming events," and we 
provided several examples. Further, as the Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability as a swimmer, the Petitioner's swimming record and history are relevant in showing whether 
she has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage who has risen 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 Id. at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" 
as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making an effort over a long period of 
time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification) . 
2 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 
1991 ). 5 Accordingly, the petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied law or policy. 
Similarly, the Petitioner contends that we "alleged that [she] lacked sustained acclaim for the time 
period starting after 2016," and [t]his is an improper application oflaw, as this time period cannot be 
considered." In addition, the Petitioner claims that "she filed her initial petition on August 18, 2017," 
and the inclusion of evidence occurring after this date "would have been unlawful and [we] erred in 
considering the time after August 18, 2017." The decision, however, does not reflect that we required 
the Petitioner did to submit evidence of her finishes and placements occurring after she filed her initial 
petition. Instead, we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish "that she received any awards 
since 2016" and "besides the I I Championships, she has not shown that she has competed 
against top swimmers since 2015, let alone winning medals or awards." Again, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she received any swimming awards from 2016 until she filed her petition in August 
201 7, nor did she show that she competed against other top swimmers from 2015 until she filed her 
petition, except for the I I Therefore, the Petitioner did not show the required sustained 
national or international acclaim and career of acclaimed work in the field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish 
that we erroneously applied law or policy. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that she did not provide "conflicting letters" regarding her results 
from the 2012 Olympic Garnes. As discussed, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the secretary 
general for the I I Olympic Committee I I who indicated that the Petitioner 
"was one of the top 50 competitors in the Olympic Garnes ranking," and another letter from the 
president o~ I who indicated that the Petitioner "finished among the top 40 athletes in the world 
in the Olympic Garnes ranking." Although she states that these statements are "objectively true," the 
issue relates to where she finished at the 2012 Olympic Garnes, in order to show national or 
international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). Here, the letters, nor the record at the 
time of our decision, showed her placement at the 2012 Olympic Garnes. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied law or 
policy in our latest decision. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny her motion. Furthe1more, the 
Petitioner does not contest or address any of our other conclusions relating to her other claims and 
evidence in our finals merits determination showing that we erred as a matter oflaw or policy. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
3 
B. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentary evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner submits a 
screenshot from sports-reference.com showing that the Petitioner ranked Din the "Women'sc=] 
metres Backstroke" at the 2012 Olympic Games, and a document from an unidentified website 
showing her collegiate record from 2013 -2017. Considering both the new evidence on motion and 
the evidence contained in the record, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field and that her achievements have been recognized in the 
field of expertise, including finishing~ at the 2012 Olympic Games and competing for the 
University! I See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). While the 
Petitioner offers an article from the usatoday.com regarding college swimmers who medaled and 
earned money from the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics, she did not show how she compares to them 
or that she has distinguished herself in the field as being one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, the Petitioner provides three documents in a foreign language without any English 
language translations. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English 
language translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Regardless, the documents appear to pertain to 
events occurring in 2018, and the Petitioner submits evidence relating to swimming competitions and 
finishes in 2018 and 2019. The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the benefit 
request. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
Accordingly, we need not further address these documents on motion. 
The Petitioner's additional evidence on motion, including evidence in the record, does not show her 
sustained national or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. Accordingly, we will deny her motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us, nor does her new evidence on motion demonstrate that she qualifies as an 
alien of extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10406687 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrati ve Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a water polo coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and motion to reopen. 
In these proceeding s, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i )-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
1 See In Re: 4992052 (Jan. 7, 2020). 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under six categories of evidence: awards under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), leading or critical role under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 2 In response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner maintained her eligibility for four criteria relating 
to memberships, judging, leading or critical role, and high salary. In addition, she claimed comparable 
evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). In denying the petition, the Director discussed 
the eligibility claims and evidence and determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria. 
On appeal, as discussed in our decision, the Petitioner did not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal. Instead, the Petitioner submitted additional 
documentation indicating eligibility under three criteria: awards, memberships, and high salary. In 
fact, the Petitioner provided an "Index of Tabs" without any brief or statement that challenged any of 
the Director's determinations. 3 Accordingly , we discussed the evidence relating to awards contained 
in the record, including the evidence provided on appeal, and determined that she did not demonstrate 
her eligibility for the awards criterion. Since the Petitioner only offered evidence relating to three 
criteria on appeal and provided no arguments relating to any other criteria, we concluded that we did 
2 The Petitioner's initial cover letter cited to 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(i), a classification for outstanding professors and researchers , 
for some of the criteria. 
3 The "Index of Tabs" on appeal reflects: "Tab 19 -The USCIS on December 26, 20 I 8, Tab 120 [sic] -Support for the 
Criterion Membership in Association That Require Outstanding Achievements ," "Tab 21 -Support of Criterion of 
Significantly High Remuneration for Services," and "Tab 22 -Nationally Recognized Award." The Petitioner's tabs from 
the initial filing and the RFE response were labeled Tab I -Tab 18. 
2 
not need to reach a decision on the membership and published material criteria as she could not meet 
at least three criteria. As such, we reserved determinations on those issues.4 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that we "analyzed one criterion (Awards)" and "erroneously 
concluded that [the] Petitioner only relied on two more criteria -Membership and High Salary" and 
"failed the de nova review standard by not looking at all criteria claimed by [the] Petitioner." We 
exercise de nova review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter ofDhanasar, 26 
I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer 
to findings made in the initial decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were 
not raised or resolved in the prior decision. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our de 
nova review authority also requires us to evaluate and address all previous eligibility claims or other 
prior arguments that were not raised or not contested on appeal. 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends that she "never waive[d] any of her claims." However, the 
Petitioner waived those claims when she did not assert them on appeal. See Getty Oil Co. v. Andrus, 
607 F.2d 253, 255-56 (9th Cir.1979) (the court concluded that the law does not require the plaintiff to 
affirmatively waive claims; instead, he waives claims if he fails to assert them on appeal). Further, 
we generally do not address issues that are not raised with specificity on appeal. Issues or claims that are 
not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov 
v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court 
determined the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we erroneously applied law or 
policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss her motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner submits photographic copies of a plaque and monument and claims the evidence shows 
her eligibility under the awards criterion and as comparable evidence. Under the Petitioner's "Index," 
she asserts, "Tab 24 -Evidence of Monument and Plate in the city of~-----~ placed in 
2019 for raising status ofl I internationally and significant contribution in development of 
physical education and sport in the country (achieved prior to filing underlying Fmm I-140 petition)." 
She filed the petition on December 29, 2017, and the plaque indicates I 12019." Here, the 
evidence does not support her assertion that she received the award prior to the filing of the petition. 
The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the benefit request. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
Regardless, the plaque reflects issuance from the .__ ____________ _.' and signed by 
the mayor ot1 I The Petitioner did not establish that this local or regional award represents 
a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. She did not provide 
supporting evidence showing the significance or recognition of the award in the field. In addition, as 
the Petitioner waived her claim of comparable evidence on appeal, we will not address it on motion. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
The documentation submitted on motion does not demonstrate that she meets the awards criterion, as 
well as at least three evidentiary criteria. Accordingly, we will deny her motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we inc01Tectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us, nor does her new evidence on motion establish that she meets at least three 
criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10599841 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrati ve Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the appeal. 
Subsequently, we denied two previous motions.1 The matter is now before us on a third motion to 
reconsider and a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
1 See In Re: 5303295 (Jan. 16, 2020), for our most recent decision. 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one criterion, display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). In her first motion, we concluded that the Petitioner met a second criterion, leading 
or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). In her second motion, although the Petitioner 
presented additional evidence relating to published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we decided that she did not establish her eligibility for either 
one. Thus, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfilled at least three of the ten criteria, in order 
to conduct a final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). At the outset, the Petitioner contends that "[i]f the 
Petitioner satisfied at least one of the 'published material" or "high salary" criterium , she would 
qqualify [sic] as an alien with extraordinary ability." However , once a petitioner meets at least three 
criteria, the totality of the evidence is then considered in a final merits determination to assess whether 
the record reflects sustained national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Further, after extraordinary ability is shown, then a petitioner must establish that he or she seeks 
to enter the United States to continue to work the area of extraordinary ability, and that he or she will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (ii) of the Act. 
Regarding our decision relating to the published material criterion, the Petitioner argues: 
As it is evident from the last decision in the present case, USCIS operates under the 
presumptio n that the published material be "primarily about the beneficiary and the 
beneficiary's work," when there is no basis in the regulations for this requirement. 
In the present case, the articles presented in Domus Design not only mention the 
Petitioner but also refer to her as the interior photographer. In addition, the article of I I 2006 states on its last page: I I 
2 
I. I have used stylish accessories to soften the strict orthogonal details, inspired by 
the Japanese home. This resulted in a delicate glamour, which was a finishing touch in 
the interior design of the apartment -light, dynamic, room inspiring to explore the 
beauty of the universe." 
In our most recent decision, however, we did not require that published material be primarily about 
the beneficiary. In fact, we stated: 
In the instant motion, she agal provi1es two articles published in the magazine domus 
design. The first, published in 2006, has already been submitted, reviewed, and 
considered . Accordingly, we will not address it in this proceeding. The second, 
published in C]2007, while previously submitted lacked a complete translation . On 
second motion, the Petitioner provides this article, which credits her with "photographs 
in the interior," and its complete translation. She asserts that it features her work, and 
directs our attention to a page in which the editor references "fresh paints posters with 
large lilies." However , the article is about the apartment and its design, not about the 
Petitioner . Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
(footnotes omitted). 
Again, the Petitioner did not establish that the articles from domus design reflect "[p ]ublished material 
about the alien ... relating to the alien's work in the field" consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . (emphasis added). The articles contain descriptions and photographs of the interior 
of apartments without showing published material about her. Although the articles mention the 
Petitioner as one of the designers, they do not discuss her; and therefore, dol not reresent published 
material about her. In fact, as evidenced by the Petitioner's quote from the 2016 article, the 
material indicates a discussion of the stylish accessories in the apartment rather than about her. 
Moreover , the Petitioner did not demonstrate that domus design qualifies as a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. The Petitioner does not contest or address our decision 
regarding this issue, nor did she show that we incorrectly applied law or policy. 
As it relates to the high salary criterion, in her first motion, the Petitioner presented an interior design 
proposal and a copy of a 2017 IRS Form 1099 reflecting nonemployee compensation of $9,800; 
however, she did not include evidence demonstrating how this remuneration compared with that of 
other interior designers. In the second motion, she submitted evidence of occupational employment 
and wage estimate entries from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, average salary reports from 
Payscale.com, and a printout of job postings from indeed.com and upwork.com for fashion designers 
and photographers. However , we concluded that her evidence reflects remuneration as an interior 
designer as opposed to her comparable salary evidence for fashion designers and photographers. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide evidence of past remuneration for work in the fields of fashion 
design and photography . 
3 
On motion, the Petitioner claims that she "acted in this project as a photographer, not an interior 
designer." Specifically, the Petitioner asserts: 
[She] has used her Photographs to consult with [the] client. The customer provided the 
photographer [the Petitioner] with the alleged designs of the bedrooms of his future 
home. The photographer had the task of creating bedding with a collage from his 
copyright photographs from thel I series. 
During conversations with the customer, different photos were tested, colors that were 
in tune with the taste of the client were selected. Unique combinations of photographs 
by shades were created in the order that the customer chose. His requirements were to 
create such a color of fabric from photographs that would soothe and delight the eye, 
create an atmosphere of comfort and lift his mood. After the final selection of 
photographs, [she] created collages from photographs selected by the client, and then 
the designer who created the bedroom interior design wrote them in the design for 
clarity, at the request of the customer. 
Although she submits copies of photographs claiming to be from the project, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that they corroborate her assertions on motion. The Petitioner did not establish that she 
perfmmed work for the "Bedroom Design Concept" as a photographer. In fact, the Petitioner first 
claims that she used her photographs and then later claims that she created a collage from the client's 
photographs. 
Notwithstanding the above, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) requires the Petitioner to show 
that she command a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to 
others in the field. Although she provided salary data for fashion designers and photographers, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that she earned a salary. Rather, as evidenced by the IRS Form 1099, 
the client compensated her for services for the "Bedroom Design Concept." Thus, the Petitioner must 
establish that she commanded significantly high remuneration for services for work on the design 
project in relation to other remuneration for services of other interior designers. Furthermore, the 
comparison to average salaries of fashion designers and photographers does not meet this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we incmrectly applied law or 
policy in our latest decision. Therefore, we will deny her motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentaiy evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Regarding the published 
material criterion, the Petitioner submits a 2014 article from Photographer reflecting published 
material about her relating to her work. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
Photographer qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Although 
she presents screenshots from Photographer's website, the Petitioner did not present objective, 
probative evidence to corroborate the website's assertions. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007), aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of 
4 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Furthermore, while 
the website and inside cover of the magazine claim a circulation of 21,500 copies, the Petitioner did 
not show the significance of the figures to establish Photographer's status as a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 2 
As it relates to the high salary criterion, the Petitioner asserts that she "is now submitting an invoice 
and pictures for work performed atl I for which she was paid a total of 
$3,374.79 for one digital print Size: 18" on metallic paper and framing showing an extremely high 
remuneration for one digital print size of 18" x 24." However, the invoice and check are dated after 
the filing of the initial petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 
1971). Accordingly, we need not further address this claim on motion. 
As discussed, the Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Accordingly, we will deny her motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly denied her previous motion based on the record 
before us, nor does her new evidence on motion demonstrate that she has fulfilled at least three criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html.See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 
(providing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation, on-line or in piint, is high compared to other circulation 
statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10750822 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in computer science. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstra te recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a principal platform engineer with I O , , I 
~ IN ew York. 1 Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determirled that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals and at 
conferences. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a 
determirlation that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.2 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not indicate his current employer. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
The Petitioner ar,ues that his academic-related awards from I l 
scholarships from I University, and employment awards froml land I I show eligibility for this criterion. Although he provided photographs of the academic 
awards from 0, the Petitioner did not support the record regarding his scholarships and employment 
awards. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how receiving academic awards from a higher 
education institution reflects the significant nature of his work in the field. While he received the 
academic awards for his papers and researc1, the(etitioner did not establish the impact or influence 
of his papers or research in the field beyond 3 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he "served as a manuscript reviewer for a variety of 
professional journals and conference organizers where he evaluates the merits to papers prior to 
publication." As previously discussed, we have already considered the Petitioner's manuscript 
reviews under the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
establish how performing paper reviews for journals or at conferences rises to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show, for example, how he significantly impacted 
or influenced the field in a major way through his paper reviews beyond the individual journals and 
conferences. 
The Petitioner also argues that "[h ]is majorf original contributions have lead [sic] to prestiwous journal 
publications in Intelligent Data Analysis, I 2017 Conference,! Science and 
Technology and many others." Again, we considered the Petitioner's publication history under the 
scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that publication of articles in highly ranked journals or presentation of work at distinguished 
conferences automatically establishes original contributions of major significance. In addition, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch in the field or that every article published 
in a highly ranked journal or presented at a distinguished conference automatically indicates a 
contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
Further, the Petitioner claims that "his papers are highly cited." The record reflects that the Petitioner 
submitted citatory evidence from Google Scholar showing that four of his papers received three, two, 
two, and one citation(s), respectively, with his remaining six papers garnering no citations. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the few citations to his work 
are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of the citations to his articles or conference papers. For example, he did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations indicate that some in 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
3 
the field have referenced his work, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation numbers to his work 
meet the threshold of major significance. 4 
Moreover, the Petitioner submitted seven recommendation letters that generally recount his research 
and findings and indicate their publications in journals or presentation at conferences. Although they 
reflect the novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have 
been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level of major 
significance required by this criterion. For instance,! I professor ate=] indicated 
that he collaborated for three years with the Petitioner on a project funded by the National Science 
Foundation that "led to four publications, including one paper being nominated for a major conference 
award."5 Here,I ldid not elaborate and explain the significance of the funding research in 
the field beyond publication and presentation. Again, publication or presentation alone is not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 
596 F.3d at 1115. 
Furthermore, the letters indicate the Petitioner's professional accomplishments while interning or 
working at various entities without showing the impact or influence in the field beyond his employers 
or institutions. For example, I O l senior program manager ofl I claimed that 
during the Petitioner's internship, he "greatly helped to build [a] protxpe for two patents" but did not 
discuss the effect, if any, the patents had in the field.I J CEO ofl I, stated 
that "as part of his Curricular Practical Training (CPT), he worked on graph databases, and built near­
real time monitorin s stem ... , which has been pushed to production." Here, the letter does not detail 
how his work at has been recognized in the overall field as a contribution of major 
significance. Similarly, , assistant professor atl I ~---------------~ indicated that "[i]n our lab and classes, we study [the 
Petitioner's] approach on finf T impo~71 news articles . . . and have played an imporullt guiding 
role in my research in lab at ' Although the letter reflects application of the Petitioner's 
approach in a lab and classes at it does not demonstrate, for example, that the approach is 
widely studied or utilized throughout the field consistent with a contribution of major significance. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authmitative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
5 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an alien contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 9 
The Petitioner indicates eligibility f~ criterion based on his role atD and submits a letter from 
I I former co-worker al__J 10 Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that he "built a variety 
of advanced computing platforms that reduced costs and increased revenues to such a high degree that 
the company was purchased byl I in 2018 for I I" However,! ldid not 
make the claim that the Petitioner's role and contributions toLJresulted inl Is purchase 
ofc=J 
Further,! I stated that the Petitioner "played a critical role" and indicated that he worked with 
the Petitioner for the "incubation team" as his delivery lead. I Is letter does not show that 
the Petitioner held a leadership position, nor did the Petitioner demonstrate where he placed in the 
hierarchy otc=J as a member of the "incubation team." The Petitioner, for example, did not compare 
his role to the other f ositiors within D As such, the Petitioner did not establish that he performed 
in a leading role for 
In addition, although! I described the Petitioner's varus Jrojects and indicated their resulfa, 
he did not elaborate and eXJ)lain how they were essential to s outcomes or activities. 11 For 
instance, whilel !stated that " t his a roach has cut down the operational cost by around 
90%," and "[t]his approach on usin reduced the deployment time from on1 day t 
I Ito only 30 minutes in~ __ __,," he did not articulate how they crucially impacted s 
functioning or were vital to its operation. 
Moreover.I !indicated various projects that were either put aside or never fully came to 
fruition. For example, "[a]lthough this project did not go [into] production, [the Petitioner] has built 
g Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005. I, supra, at I 0. 
9 Id. 
'0 The Petitioner argues that "[ a ]t page four of the Director's decision, it is stated that 'a letter from I I and an 
article published by I I.' could not be located. However, these documents were submitted to the [Director] in 
response to the ... notice of intent to deny." The record does not reflect that the Petitioner provided this document to the 
Director. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
a beta version quickly with a single-agent to showcase the idea to senior management and get their 
approval for the project," and "[t]his architecture would save some cost further, however, due to the 
amount of effort that would take to go serverless, it has been set aside for later in the road map." Here, 
the Petitioner did not show how projects that were never implemented influence~ Is business 
activities in a critical way. I I also claimed that the Petitioner "saved 156,000 USD, which 
corresponds to 90% of annual saving (2018) by our team." However,! I did not explain the 
importance or significance of the team's savings to C=1 s operation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role fore=) 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 12 The Petitioner claims eligibility for 
this criterion based on his salary withD as a principal platform engineer. On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits a screenshot from flcdatacenter.com regarding level 1 to 4 wages for computer programmers 
in the .__ ___ ~ ________ __.Region ofCalifornia."13 According to the Petition
1er's jolb 
offer letter, paystubs, and tax documentation previously submitted, both his address and s 
address were located in the New York area.14 Here, the Petitioner does not explain how wage data 
from California relates to New York.15 
Moreover, the Petitioner compares the salaries of computer programmers to his salary as a principal 
platform engineer. He did not establish that he commands a high salary in relation to other principal 
platform engineers. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salaiy information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
In addition, Level 1 wage relates to entry level employees, while Level 4 wages relate to fully 
competent employees.16 The Petitioner did not show that he commands a high salary in relation to 
other principal platf mm engineers rather than to the average salaries of fully competent computer 
programmers. 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
13 The Petitioner contends that "[a]t page four of the Director's decision, it is stated that 'the record lacks evidence 
comparing your earnings to others in the field. However, these documents were submitted to the [Director's] ... notice 
of intent to deny." The record does not reflect that the Petitioner provided this document to the Director. 
14 According to screenshots from I lsubmittedJ !entered an agreement to purchasec=] after the filing 
of the petition. 
15 Id. (instructing that the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence and examples may include, but are 
not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay above 
the compensation data). 
16 See https://www.flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_11_2009.pdf~ accessed on September 21, 
2020. 
6 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10070333 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physiatrist specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. Subsequently, the Director dismissed the Petitioner's joint motion to reopen and 
motion to reconsider as untimely filed. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the decision and 
remand the matter to the Director. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
claimed to satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Ultimately, the Director determined that the Petitioner met four of those criteria: published material 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As such, the 
Director conducted a final merits determination and concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field. 1 The Director subsequently decided that the Petitioner untimely filed his joint motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider and dismissed the motions. 
Motions must be filed within 30 days of the decision.2 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). If the decision 
was mailed, 3 days will be added to the filing time requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b). When the 
last day of a period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period shall run until the end of 
the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 C.F.R. § 1.2. USCIS will consider 
a benefit request received and will record the receipt date as of the actual date of receipt at the location 
designated for filing such benefit request whether electronically or in paper format. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103. l(a)(7)(i). 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 The 30-day filing period for a motion to reopen "may be excused in the discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated 
that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) . 
2 
The record reflects that the Director denied the petition by mail on September 12, 2019.3 As such, the 
regulations permitted the Petitioner to file a motion within 3 3 days, or by October 15, 2019 (Tuesday). 4 
See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i) and 103.8(b). The Director determined that the Petitioner filed the 
motions on October 18, 2019, 36 days after the decision. However, although USCIS receipted the 
motions on October 18, 2019, the record establishes that USCIS actually received the motions on 
October 15, 2019, within the 33-day timeframe to file motions.5 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.l(a)(7)(i). 
Therefore, the Director incorrectly dismissed the motions as untimely filed. 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to consider all of the arguments and 
documentation in the record, including on motion and on appeal, to determine whether the totality of 
the evidence overcomes the initial decision denying the petition, and whether the Petitioner established 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Director erroneously dismissed the motions as untimely filed. As such, we will remand the matter 
for further consideration of the record, including claims and documentation submitted on motion and 
on appeal, and entty of a new decision. 6 
ORDER: The decision of the Director, Texas Service Center, is withdrawn. The matter is 
remanded to the Director, Texas Service Center, for further proceedings consistent with 
the foregoing opinion and for the entty of a new decision, which, if adverse, shall be 
certified to us for review. 
3 The Director indicated in his introductory discussion paragraph that "[o ]n September 5, 2019, Form 1-140 was denied by 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigrant Services (USCIS) .... " However, in his conclusory paragraph, the Director stated that 
"[t]he notice ofUSClS's decision to deny the Form 1-140 was sent on September 12, 2019." The record shows the denial 
decision dated on September 12, 2019, as the official decision date. 
4 Columbus Day, a legal holiday, fell on Monday, October 14, 2019. 
5 The record contains a stamped date of "OCT 15 2019 A.M. 02" on the envelope. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service 
tracking number attached to the envelope confirms delivery on October 15, 2019 at 5:33 AM. See 
https://tools.usps.com/go/TrackConfirmAction?I I and accessed on September 21, 
2020. 
6 We have the authority to withdraw a decision and remand the case for further action, with an order that it be certified 
back to us if the new decision is adverse to the affected party. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0087, Certification 
of Decisions to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) 4 (July 2, 2013), https://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda, 
Adjudicator's Field Manual 3.5(c). 10.18(a)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/ilink. This order is not meant to compel approval 
of the remanded case, but is designed to preserve the affected party's ability to seek appellate review without payment of 
a second appeal fee. Id. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9868430 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in molecular biology. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstra te recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognize d award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims employment as a postdoctoral researcher with the ... I ________ __. 
University I I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that he bas received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications . Accordingly , we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a 
determination that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues: 
[He] submitted preponderant evidence of his original scientific contributions , including 
media reports about his original research discoveries , the high reputation and quality 
of professional journals that include his original discoveries in the form of scholarly 
papers, the extensive citations in bis specific field in a relatively short period of time to 
prove [his] original scientific contributions of major significance have been recognized 
in the scientific community. 
[He] submitted well-founded expert testimonies to prove the major significance of [his] 
original scientific contributions . 
2 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
As it relates to his publication history, the Petitioner presented evidence reflecting that he authored 
five articles in professional journals, including Cell Research (2011 ), Nature Neuroscience (2013), 
Journal of Comparative Neurology (2013), Cell Reports (2016), and Stem Cells (2013). While he 
contends that he "published high-quality scientific papers in highly influential professional 
publications," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that publication of articles in highly ranked or 
prestigious journals automatically establishes original contributions of major significance. Moreover, 
a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; 
it does not show that specific author's influence or the impact of research in the field or that every 
article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major 
significance. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent 
evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th 
Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that publication in a 
popular or highly ranked journal demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. For 
example, the Petitioner did not explain how an article published in a "high-impact" journal that 
resulted in receiving little or no attention or otherwise did not influence the field would routinely 
qualify as being majorly significant in the field. 
Further, as pointed out by the Petitioner, the Director indicated that "the number of citations of [his] 
work, when compared with that of the leading scientists in the field, whose publications (according to 
Google Scholar) have garnered citations numbered well in the thousands, does not establish 
contributions of major significance in the field." (emphasis in original). In general, the comparison 
of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining 
whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if 
the Director determined he met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
However, the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article, as indicated below, may be 
relevant for this criterion in order to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of 
major significance. 2 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that "[t]he CIS/NSC Director abused discretion by arbitrarily ignoring 
the evidentiary value of [his] objective evidence of the top percentile comparison data of citations and 
metrics due to prove his original contributions of major significance." Specifically, the Petitioner 
refers to his citation numbers compiled by Google Scholar and percentage rankings from InCites 
1 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form r-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 
Essential Science Indicators by Clarivate Analytics and Altmetric. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that his journal articles 
indicated above received 232, 138, 43, 13, and 11 citations, respectively. In response to the Director's 
request for evidence and on appeal, the Petitioner provided updated figures showing increased 
citations for each of his papers. However, the Petitioner did not show whether the increased citations 
occun-ed in papers published after the filing of his petition. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). Regardless, 
this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of "major 
significance" in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original 
contributions but to also explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that the citations to his work are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of these citation figures. For example, he did not demonstrate that 232 
citations for his Cell Research article signifies an unusually high number in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. 3 Although his 
citations indicate the some in the field have referenced his work, the Petitioner did not establish that 
his citation numbers to his work satisfy the threshold of the regulatory requirement of "major 
significance." 
As it pertains to InCites Essential Science Indicators from Clarivate Analytics, the Petitioner contends 
that his "scientific papers have been placed on the Top 1 % and Top 10% of the most-cited papers 
repeatedly."4 Moreover, regarding Altmetric, the Petitioner argues that his Cell Research "paper has 
been ranked within the top 5% of all research outputs scored by Altmetric based on Altmetric's highly­
level measure of quality and quantity of on line attention the paper has received. "5 Comparing average 
citations per paper per year to the Petitioner's citations, however, does not automatically establish 
majorly significant contributions in his field, nor did he show that all papers garnering citations above 
the average for the year qualify as being majorly significant. Once again, the issue for this criterion 
is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than 
where his citations fall among the averages of others in his field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, 
for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that 
the field views as being majorly significant, as well as factoring in other con-oborating evidence. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with unreliable and skewed citation rankings and 
3 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 According to Clarivate Analytics, "[c]itation frequency is highly skewed, with many infrequently cited papers and 
relatively few highly cited papers. Consequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as representing the central 
tendency of the distribution." For instance, based on the Clarivate Analytics data submitted by the Petitioner, biology and 
biochemistry papers published in 2018 receiving nine and three citations are considered to be in the top 1 % and 10%, 
respectively. 
5 According to Altmetric, "[i]t is important to bear in mind that metrics (including citation-based metrics) are merely 
indicators-they can point to interesting spikes in different types of attention, etc but are not themselves evidence of such." 
Moreover, "[t]here are a number oflimitations to the use of altmetrics," "altmetrics are a complement to, not a replacement 
for, things like informed peer review and citation-based metrics,""[ a ]nyone with enough time on their hands can artificially 
inflate the altmetrics for their research." and "[ u ]ntil we know more, use and interpret altmetrics carefully." 
4 
percentiles provide probative evidence of being majorly significant in the field as indicated by being 
among the top percentile or most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
Similarly, the Petitioner contends that he provided: 
Evidence of the Top 6% most cited papers among all the scientific research papers in 
the same issue of the scientific journal Cell Research reported by Metrics of citations, 
as well as the Top 22% most cited papers among all the scientific research papers 
published in Nature Neuroscience Volume 21 issues 12-10 (the fourth season) in 2013 
reported by Metrics of citations. 
At the time of initial filing, the Petitioner submitted self-compiled tables entitled "Cell Research 2011 
Volume 21 Ranked 5th out of 81, Top 6%" and "Nature Neuroscience 2011 Volume 21, Issue 12-10 
(the fourth season) Ranked 11th out of 50, Top 22%." However, comparing a journal article to the 
other articles from the same journal edition does not automatically establish majorly significant 
contributions in his field, nor did he show that such journal edition rankings demonstrate the 
widespread influence in the field consistent with being majorly significant. Here, the rankings and 
percentiles relate to where the article stands in the journal edition rather than the impact in the overall 
field. 6 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that he provided "73 review articles published by prestigious 
publications, which reported, commented, and cited [to his] research contributions." As discussed, 
the Petitioner has demonstrated that others have cited to his work in their journal papers. Further, the 
mere citation of work by others does not automatically show "major significance." Here, the partial 
articles do not reflect the impact of the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the authors 
who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner submitted a partial article entitled, ·l I I I' in which the authors cited to his Nature Neuroscience 
article. 7 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's research from the over 
119 other cited articles, nor does the article credit his work for being majorly significant. In the case 
here, the Petitioner did not show that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major 
significance" as required by this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also contends that he offered "media reports about his original discoveries." The record 
contains two articles posted on sciencenet.cn and ebiotrade.com, which reported on findings ofl I 
University's research that was published in Nature Neuroscience. However, the Petitioner did not 
show that such limited reporting reflects the major significance of the research. For example, he did 
not demonstrate that the research from the Nature Neuroscience article resulted in widespread media 
coverage and interest, signifying a level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Instead, the two articles speculate on the possibility of having an impact at some point in the future, 
such as "in the future, human beings are expected to acquire neural stem cells that produce such cells 
from the origin of such cells, and then transplant them." While the research indicated promise, the 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
Petitioner did not establish how the work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in 
the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that he "submitted detailed testimonials by twelve (12) experts in the 
field." Although they reflect the novelty of his work, the recommendation letters do not sufficiently 
articulate how his research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact 
on the field rises to the level of major significance required by this criterion. For example, ._I __ ___. I !detailed the Petitioner's "finding on the I I in the development of 
.__ ________ ___, neurons."8 While I I opined that the Petitioner's "groundbreaking 
research discovery ... has major importance to the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of 
disorders," he did not further elaborate and explain, for instance, how the 
._P_e-t1-·t1-·o-n_e_r-'s-re_s_e-ar_c_h_p-re_v_e_.nted, assisted in the diagnosis, or led to the treatment ofl I 
I I disorders. 
Likewise,.__ ______ ___.described several of the Petitioner's research findings but made broad 
statements regarding the significance of those findings in the field. For instance, the Petitioner's 
~ificant discovery of the role of in the development of 
L..,_Js has major significance to establishing a model to investigate · caused 
by abnormal development and survival of I b." However,,__ ____ __, did not 
indicate if any models have been developed. Similarly, the Petitioner's "research discovery represents 
a major progress in understanding the cause of~ I disorders and is highly useful in 
developin~ new I !therapies." Again~ ____ __.did not indicate whether anyc=J 
!therapies were created as a result of the Petitioner's research. 
Although the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings and make broad statements 
regarding their significance in the field, they do contain sufiicient information detailing how his work 
has been of major significance. In fact, some letters hypothesize on the effect of the Petitioner's 
research at some undetermined time in the future. For exam le o ined that the 
Petitioner's "research discovery ... will lead to .__ ____ ..--------------.------' with desired 
functions for the treatment of.__ _____ _.disease," and claimed that the 
Petitioner's "original findings ... will allow us to take better advantage o~ I learning and 
,__ _________ _." ( emphasis added). Here, the letters do not show that the significant 
nature of his research has already been realized or has been implemented or utilized in a manner 
consistent with major significance. 
The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
8 While we discuss a sampling of the letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 
criterion.10 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original contributions rise to the level of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a dete1mination that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and published his work, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian. 580 F .3d at 1036, ajf' din part, 596 F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatmy 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2024 In Re: 33464200 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial technology company, employs the Beneficiary as its chief executive officer 
and seeks to classify him as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
1 The Petitioner 's signature on Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal, appears to be digitally reproduced. It is indistinguishable 
from signatures on other fonns in the record, such as Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance of Attorney or 
Representative , and the Form I-140 petition. But we cannot make a conclusive determination , in part because the original 
paper documents are not in the record before us on appellate review. Any future filings in this proceeding must be hand­
signed in ink by an authorized official of the petitioning entity, as required by the form instructions and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(2). A benefit request, such as an appeal, will be rejected if it lacks a valid signature. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(B) . 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of the individual's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "established and led to success several businesses" in Ukraine, 
including a ride-sharing service, "luxury retail entities," and a "provider of enterprise software that 
modernized the operations ofEastern European taxi-services." The Beneficiary entered the United States 
in April 2015 as a B-1/B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. After holding E-2 nonimmigrant status as a treaty 
investor from 2017 to 2023, the Beneficiary currently holds O-lA nonimmigrant status as an individual 
with extraordinary ability or achievement. The Petitioner offers a platform, conceived by the Beneficiary, 
whereby online purchasers can apply "cash back" rewards to retirement savings or student loan payments. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied one criterion, relating to a leading or critical 
role for a distinguished organization. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that it has also satisfied the 
other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had met 
the criterion relating to a leading or critical role. We also conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied 
2 
two other criteria, pertaining to memberships and published material. We will discuss the claimed 
criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record documents the Beneficiary's receipt of al IAward for "Financial Technology" awarded 
byl Iin 2019. We agree with the Petitioner that the Beneficiary was the named recipient of the 
award, but we also agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner had not established that the 
award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that thel !Award was "established by ... well-known leading 
national institutions in the retirement planning industry." The cited supporting evidence is promotional 
material from the awarding entities' own websites. We need not rely on self-promotional material of this 
kind. Cf Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th 
Cir. 2009) ( concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of a 
magazine as evidence ofthe magazine's status as major media). 
Even then, the language ofthe regulation requires recognition ofthe prize or award itself. In response to 
a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner had quoted 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual, which states: "Examples of qualifying awards may include ... 
[c]ertain awards from well-known national institutions or well-known professional associations." 
(Emphasis added.) 
own press release indicates that the Beneficiary received the "inaugural" award, demonstrating 
that the award had no previous history, and therefore no prior recognition, when the Beneficiary received 
the first one. The awarding entity's own promotional statements do not establish that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized, and the Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that the award 
received industry attention beyond the three affiliated awarding entities themselves. 
The Petitioner has not met its burden ofproof to meet the criterion's regulatory requirements. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Beneficiary joined the Forbes Finance Council in 2017. The Director concluded that "it appears that 
Forbes Business Council requires an annual fee." The Director quoted 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)( 1 ), which states an association that admits members "based solely on ... [t]he payment of a fee" 
would not satisfy the regulatory requirements. The record, however, does not indicate that payment of a 
fee is sufficient, by itself, to secure Council membership. If an organization requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts, then the additional requirement 
of a membership fee is not inherently disqualifying. 
3 
The co-founder and chief operating officer of the Forbes Finance Council stated in a letter that the 
Beneficiary "was invited to join our organization ... due to his outstanding achievements as a leading 
senior-level executive in the financial field, and his extraordinary contribution to the global business 
community." The official stated that a candidate "[m]ust be a senior-level executive with a successful 
company" with at least one million dollars in annual revenue or financing, and must pass "an internal 
review process . . . by our professional selection committee to determine the level of their outstanding 
qualifications within the field, taking into account publications, speaking engagements and other 
contributions that demonstrate knowledge and expertise." The official added that "membership decisions 
are made by recognized national or international experts in finance." 
In the RFE and again in the denial notice, the Director stated that "Forbes Business [sic] Council is a 
resource platform for business networking and marketing," and therefore the Beneficiary's membership 
"would not be considered the beneficiary's membership in an association." The Director did not elaborate 
or cite any record evidence that led to this conclusion. 
Based on the available evidence, and in the absence of contrary evidence, the Forbes Finance Council 
appears to qualify as an association in the Beneficiary's field. The Director did not identify any reason 
to discount the Council official's description of the membership requirements or to question the 
authenticity of the letters containing that information. Therefore, we conclude the Beneficiary has met 
the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted printouts of several online articles published between 201 7 and 2023. Some of 
these articles are not about the Beneficiary, relating to his work; rather, they include brief quotations from 
the Beneficiary, in a context that make him a co-author rather than the subject of the articles. Other 
materials appear to be promotional in nature, such as an article from Entrepreneur by an author identified 
as working in public relations and marketing. In some other cases, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
articles appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. But these objections 
do not apply to all the submitted articles. 
Some ofthe Petitioner's submissions appear to be sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden ofproof with 
respect to the regulatory requirements for the criterion. The weight to be afforded to the published 
materials is an issue for the final merits determination. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major 
significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed significance. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). In some cases, testimonial letters that lack 
corroborating documentation may have somewhat diminished weight. 
4 
We will also consider evidence of significant commercialization ofthe person's work. Id. The Petitioner 
must establish the nature and extent of the commercial use. 
The Petitioner initially submitted two letters praising the savings methodology that the Beneficiary 
developed and implemented through the petitioning company. Both letters have close ties to the Petitioner 
and the Beneficiary; one, a professor at the ___________ is an advisor to the 
Petitioner; the other, a managing director at a retirement advisory firm, is a member of the Petitioner's 
board of directors. 
The Petitioner's advisor credited the Beneficiary with having "invented a revolutionary new approach" 
to retirement savings by tying "cash back" rewards from online transactions to savings contributions. The 
advisor asserted that "some firms ... have observed [the Petitioner's] success and are trying to imitate its 
approach," but he provided no details or corroborating evidence. 
The member of the Petitioner's board of directors stated that the Petitioner "is partnered with over 1,300 
online businesses." The Petitioner submitted copies of seven service agreements with companies 
involved in various aspects of financial services. Most ofthe agreements are for the Petitioner to provide 
certain services to customers, for which the Petitioner would waive its fee provided the customer actively 
marketed the Petitioner's service to the customer's own clients. 
Apart from the letters, the Petitioner submitted a document with the heading "Industry leaders 
endorsements." The document includes statements, generally a paragraph in length, from 17 individuals. 
In the denial notice, the Director declined to consider these endorsements, stating that Linkedln is a self­
edited platform that lacks reliability. The record, however, does not indicate that the endorsements 
originated on Linkedin. Rather, the Petitioner appears to have prepared the endorsement document, 
including Linkedln screen captures to provide biographical information about each of the quoted 
individuals. 
Some ofthese brief testimonials praise the Beneficiary's ideas as "revolutionary" and "the best thing that 
has happened to the retirement industry in decades," and that the Beneficiary "very quickly is making his 
company a household name." Other testimonials focus on the Beneficiary's skills or personal character. 
The brief statements lack significant detail and do not explain how the Beneficiary's innovations are of 
major significance in the field. 
Several statements emphasize potential future impact. A general partner at another financial firm stated 
that the Beneficiary's system "can potentially positively impact millions of Americans." One writer, who 
indicated that the petitioning company "is already starting to have an impact with my clients and is 
potentially at the tipping point of a major impact on how everyday Americans save for retirement," is on 
the Petitioner's board of directors. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner's initial submission had not shown "that the 
beneficiary's work has had significant influence on the field of business at large." 
5 
In response, the Petitioner quoted previously submitted materials and asserted: "Quite a few industry 
influencers had recognized the importance ofthe beneficiary's solution and invested in his venture." The 
Petitioner stated that the company has raised over $5 million in capital, and claimed: 
Such backing is not possible without a thorough evaluation by seasoned professionals who 
only invest in projects with recognized novelty, distinctive value proposition, and capacity 
for significant growth and impact. The numbers reached by [the Petitioner] speak for 
themselves. 
It is indisputable that the influx of such substantial investments from top-tier country 
investors serves as a resounding endorsement, affirming the originality, uniqueness, and 
tremendous potential inherent in a business idea. 
The Petitioner did not submit corroborating evidence to show that each of these investors based their 
decision on the major significance of the Beneficiary's original contributions, rather than some other 
factor such as their belief that the company would be profitable and therefore offer a worthwhile return 
on investment. 
The Petitioner has not met its burden of proof to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the 
Beneficiary's original contributions are of major significance in his field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
A scholarly article should be written for learned persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)( l ). 
The Petitioner asserted that the Beneficiary "is a regular author [for] the most prestigious magazine in the 
financial industry- Forbes Magazine." The Petitioner submitted copies of seven articles written or co­
written by the Beneficiary that appeared on Forbes's website between 2017 and 2021. The Beneficiary's 
membership in the Forbes Finance Council provides him with the opportunity to publish such articles. 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary's articles "were not scholarly but informational," and "were 
written for the general population" rather than "for 'learned' persons." 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion, stating: "The beneficiary's articles are ... 
scholarly and intended for learned persons," "written for other experts," and "written in the specialized 
language that requires deep theoretical and practical understanding of the financial planning market, its 
concepts and mechanisms." 
The record does not support the Petitioner's characterization of the Beneficiary's Forbes "Council Post" 
articles. Several of the submitted articles are aimed directly at parents, saving for their children's 
education; entrepreneurs with startup businesses; and "millennials ... looking for better ways to save." 
Even the articles addressing the financial services industry are written in general terms rather than 
"specialized language that requires deep theoretical and practical understanding ofthe financial planning 
market." The following quotations are representative examples: 
6 
Millennials need debt counseling now more than ever. With commercial debt from 
student loans, cars and even mortgages continuing to rise, these young adults need to 
understand exactly what their debt could mean for their future. 
* * * 
Millen[ n ]ials have already taken the reins from the baby boomers as the largest generation 
in the workforce. Yet, there appears to be limited access to automated savings and 
automatic retirement contributions for those who desire it, even as other industries keep 
up with the desire for automation. 
The Beneficiary's articles amount to general advice, sometimes promoting the product that the Petitioner 
offers, rather than scholarly writings requiring profound knowledge. 
As explained above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met its burden of proof with 
regard to prizes, scholarly articles by the Beneficiary, and original contributions ofmajor significance. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner appears to have met its burden of proof relating to two other criteria, 
pertaining to memberships and published materials about the Beneficiary. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we will remand the matter for the Director to render a final merits determination in the first 
instance. The Director must evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. A final merits determination involves 
analyzing an individual's accomplishments and weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if 
they have achieved a degree of recognition sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
In a final merits determination, evidence of the Beneficiary's existing impact and recognition may have 
more weight than speculation about the impact that his work might have in the future. Among other 
potential factors, the Director may consider whether: 
• The published materials about the Beneficiary's work focus on the importance of his work to the 
field or, instead, primarily serve to promote or advertise his and the Petitioner's work; 
• Other companies have adopted the Beneficiary's innovations; and 
• The Petitioner has established the extent ofthe Beneficiary's impact on the field. 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
7 
In weighing these issues, the Director must consider the totality of the record. The Director must also 
consider how well the Petitioner has explained the significance of the submitted evidence, and how it 
demonstrates that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained national or international acclaim and recognition 
in his field of expertise. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) 
When assessing the extent ofthe Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition, the Director should keep in mind 
that general figures such as the total amount of student debt in the United States, or the overall rate of 
retirement savings, may illustrate the hypothetical potential impact of the Beneficiary's work, but do not 
establish that he has already earned sustained national or international acclaim for that work. 3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. 
Under the two-step Kazarian framework, the Petitioner's satisfaction of three baseline criteria sets the 
stage for a final merits determination, but does not determine its outcome. The Petitioner must show 
that the Beneficiary has earned a degree ofrecognition that indicates sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
We remand this matter in order for the Director to render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of 
extraordinary ability. Ultimately the outcome of this petition rests on its own record of proceedings. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 24, 2024 In Re: 33950340 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an assistant professor who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional arguments and evidence relating to some of the criteria, but 
none that fully addresses all ofthe regulatory requirements while also overcoming the Director's analysis. 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter ofBurbano, 
20 l&N Dec. 872,874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the 
practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other 
circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Edwards v. U.S. Att 'y Gen., 97 F .4th 725, 734 (11th Cir. 
2024) (joining every other U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt 
and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner abandoned her claims relating to prizes or awards and a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration. Further, she still does not offer evidence that the organizations in which she is a member 
utilize nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements ofprospective members 
to determine if the achievements are outstanding, nor did she show that some entities require outstanding 
achievements as a condition ofmembership versus exhibiting excellence and high ethical standards. And 
still lacking from the record is evidence that the publications that published material about her and related 
to her work in the field were one of the regulatory required publication types despite the Director 
addressing that aspect in the denial. We do not question the originality of her research, but she continues 
to fall short of demonstrating her contribution have significantly impacted the field through incremental 
recognition from the field. And finally relating to performing in a leading or critical role, she has not 
adequately addressed and overcome the Director's determination that she did not show she contributed 
to the organizations that is of significance to the entity itself 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 25, 2024 In Re: 33380799 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film producer and cinema expert, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). A remand is warranted 
in this case because the Director's decision is insufficient for review as the decision lacks sufficient 
analysis and discussion of the evidence in the record and reaches conclusory findings with respect to 
the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification . Upon de novo review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following 
analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner stated that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have 
been recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), evidence that the individual commanded a high salary 
The Director concluded he did not meet any of the claimed criteria and the Petitioner maintains on 
appeal that he meets the four claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts the Director made 
numerous factual errors and did not fully explain the reasons for denying the petition. The record 
supports the Petitioner's claims. Upon review, we find that the Director's decision did not adequately 
address all the claimed evidentiary criteria or analyze the evidence provided and did not fully explain 
the reasons the petition was denied. 
For example, in the Director's decision, a section was entitled, "Inconsistencies in the record" whereby 
she outlined several of the documents submitted by the Petitioner and stated that the Petitioner 
"provided a volume of evidence that was insufficient to establish eligibility," but does not provide any 
explanation as to what analysis the Director is doing in this part of the decision for this classification. 
It appears that the Director is concerned that the Petitioner did not provide employment verification 
letters from his employers; however, the Petitioner did in fact submit the requested documentation 
even though this is not required evidence for this classification. In addition, the Director noted the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence of his education level from the priority date but a review of the 
submitted evidence does in fact show the Petitioner submitted this evidence in response to the request 
for evidence. 
In addition, the Director noted in the decision that the Petitioner failed to provide a properly certified 
translation of the documents submitted in support of the evidentiary criteria and therefore, the 
documentation was not probative. However, the Director did not explain why the Petitioner's 
2 
translation was not considered a properly certified translation of foreign documents and did not meet 
the standard as outlined in 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b ). 
In the denial's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) regarding published material 
about the Petitioner, the Director noted the Petitioner failed to provide a properly certified translation 
of the documents but did not explain the problem with the certification. In addition, the Director does 
not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted in support of this criterion with any specificity and 
instead summarily concluded that the evidence was insufficient. 
In the denial's analysis of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) regarding original contributions and 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) regarding evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Director stated 
that the Petitioner provided letters of recommendation where the writers made general references to 
the petitioner's reputation and noble contributions, however, the "writers attested information and 
work history that is not corroborated or verified by a current of former employer." The regulations do 
not require evidence from a former or current employer to verify original contributions and the 
Petitioner has indicated in the response to the request for evidence that he submitted a letter from his 
former employer that the Director did not sufficiently discuss. The Director also noted the evidence 
had insufficient translation certification but did not further explain. 
Although the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted a "volume of evidence," the 
Director's decision did not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted with specificity and 
improperly dismissed evidence without proper explanation. When denying a petition, an officer shall 
explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). An officer must fully 
explain the reasons for denial to allow the petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and our 
opportunity for meaningful appellate review. Cf Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that an Immigration Judge must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's 
errors deprived the Petitioner of a fair opportunity to appeal the denial and inhibit our ability to 
meaningfully review the denial on appeal. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief and documentation, which further addresses the previously submitted 
evidence. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 25, 2024 In Re: 33818924 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an actor who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that even though the record established that the Petitioner met at least three of 
the ten regulatory criteria, his case did not warrant a favorable finding in the final merits determination. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been an actor for more than two decades and has appeared in multiple feature films 
and television series. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner initially checked the incorrect immigrant 
classification box on the petition and he did not clearly indicate what criteria he was claiming. After 
the Director issued two requests for evidence (RFE), Petitioner's counsel submitted a new and 
corrected copy ofa petition and submitted a very brief statement explaining what criteria the Petitioner 
then directly claimed, and a short statement relating to the final merits. Within that brief statement, 
the Petitioner claimed he met seven of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied three of the criteria relating to published material, a 
leading or critical role, and high salary or remuneration but did not indicate whether he met any of the 
other claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfied the membership, 
contributions of major significance, display, and commercial success criteria and notes the Director 
failed to even indicate whether he fulfilled those regulatory provisions. After reviewing all the 
arguments and evidence in the record, we conclude that within this petition, the Petitioner has not 
adequately demonstrated he is eligible for this immigrant classification. 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets three evidentiary criteria, it is unnecessary that 
we discuss the remaining criteria and associated evidence, but we will incorporate our analysis ofthose 
issues within the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one ofthe small percentage at the very top ofthe field ofendeavor, and that his achievements 
2 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
(stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition 
in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the 
required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
According to the Petitioner's initial filing statement, he started his acting career in 2000 and over the 
subsequent decades, he has steadily ascended in stature in that profession. He has appeared in several 
television programs and movies, which led to his approval for an 0-1 nonimmigrant visa to complete 
his projects, and his membership in the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. While we agree the 
Petitioner is accomplished in his field, the record as presented in this petition does not demonstrate 
that his achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
We first address a shortcoming in the appellate filing in which the Petitioner relies on achievements 
that did not exist, or did not come to fruition, on or before the date he filed this petition. Because he 
must establish he is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the application or petition, 
those achievements that postdate the petition filing date will not factor into this decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b)(1 ). There are multiple forms of evidence that postdate the petition filing date, but the most 
notable is the I I nomination in 2024. 
Although the Director discussed the Petitioner's membership in the Academy of Television Arts & 
Sciences, they did not consider I I letter. Within her letter, Ms. I Iindicated the 
Academy of Television Arts & Sciences offers membership to those who achieve notable success in 
the television industry, and their membership is comprised exclusively of television industry 
professionals who have accrued enough credits or experience to meet the criteria for joining the 
Academy, as well as one of their specialty peer groups. She further noted the Petitioner's credited 
work was the basis for his approval ofNational Active status in the Performers Peer Group. According 
to Ms. I Ithat status "denotes those eligible to vote in our Emmy competitions and is conferred 
only upon those who have achieved a significant position within the industry or accumulated enough 
credits to exemplify proficiency at their craft." She listed the criteria for National Active status as: 
• The candidate is at least eighteen years of age; 
• They have been actively engaged in activities related to the production or distribution of 
television for national exhibition during the four immediately preceding years; and 
• They qualify for admission to one or more Peer Groups, or are nominated for a Primetime 
Emmy Award within the four years preceding their application for membership, or have 
achieved a significant body of work relevant to the peer group. 
As it relates to the third bullet, the Petitioner does not claim that he was nominated for a Primetime 
Emmy Award within the four years preceding his membership application in approximately 201 7. 
She also provided the requirements for those in the National Performers Peer Group as the following: 
3 
• Employment as a performer for a minimum of two years with ten qualifying credits of 
nationally exhibited content in a principal role within the past four years. Background work is 
excluded; 
• At least fifty percent of the ten qualifying credits must be from traditional network broadcast, 
cable and/or streaming service original content; and 
• Active (voting) members must maintain the current requirements of the peer group. All 
members will go through periodic reviews of their credits by the Performer Peer Group 
Governors to determine ifthey still qualify. If a member no longer meets the criteria for Active 
membership, they are moved to an Associate (non-voting) membership. 
Although Ms.I ldid not mention it, the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences' website reflects 
the organization charges annual dues for National Active memberships, and members submit an 
application for inclusion rather than exclusively being invited to join based on career achievements. 1, 2 
Being part of this entity, and to a lesser extent the above listed criteria, demonstrate this membership 
is notable as it denotes the Petitioner is part of a professional organization thatplays a significant role 
in the television industry in the United States. But neither he nor Ms. explains why it is 
indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise indicating that he is one 
ofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
Additionally, the statute and regulations require the Petitioner to demonstrate that his national or 
international acclaim has been sustained. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A)(i), and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The documentation submitted under this regulatory area 
is a single instance of above-average membership and it predates the petition filing date by approximately 
six years. The Petitioner has not demonstrated how this single instance is consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim, nor has he shown that one membership is representative of extensive 
documentation. 
Regarding the published material regulatory area, the Director decided the Petitioner's evidence did not 
demonstrate that his overall publication record is tantamount to a career of acclaimed work or that it 
demonstrates the required sustained national or international acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner's brief 
states that he "appeared in well know [sic-] publications and said publicity has been, absent the [2023 
actor's] strike, continuous for the past 15 years. This is sustained national and international acclaim." 
This is not a substantive rebuttal to the Director's analysis in the denial decision as it doesn't delve into 
why the published material amounts to at least sustained national acclaim, and we will not address this 
regulatory area further. 
And the Petitioner discusses an interview that occurred prior to the date he filed the petition, but it was 
not released to the public until after the filing date. He claims the interview "could not be released to the 
public until after the actors strike ended on November 13, 2023," but the interview was published in 
January 2024 well after the Petitioner states the strike ended and he does not account for the delay. Ifthe 
Membership at the Television Academy, Television Academy Emmys (Aug. 15, 2024), 
https:/ /www.emmys.com/members/join. 
2 No Invitation Necessa1y, Television Academy Emmys (Aug. 15, 2024), https://www.emmys.com/members/video/2024-
02. 
4 
Petitioner wished to include that published material in this petition, it would have been necessary for him 
to wait an additional month to file this petition. 
We will not factor that achievement into this analysis any more than we would count a lifetime 
achievement award issued after the petition filing date for work a foreign national completed before they 
filed the petition. The Petitioner must establish he is eligible for the requested benefit at 
thetimeoffilingthe application or petition. 8C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he is one of a small percentage who have risen to the very top in his field, or that he 
has sustained national or international acclaim in this regulatory topical area. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Turning to the original contributions of major significance topic, the Petitioner's initial filing before the 
Director did not directly assert eligibility relating to his contributions and in response to the RFE he only 
presented his career statistics consisting of the following: 
[The Petitioner] has been an active actor for 23 years. He has more than 60 credits at the 
time ofthe submission ofthis at-issue Petition including appearing in 39 television series, 
13 feature films, 8 television movies and to which the Beneficiary has brought his 
originality to his diverse roles. 
The Director discussed several letters the Petitioner offered from those in his industry and decided that 
even though they reflected his achievements, they did not sufficiently support his claims that he is 
considered among that small percentage at the top ofhis field. On appeal, the Petitioner simply offers the 
same statement about his career statistics without refuting any element in the denial decision. Lacking is 
the Petitioner's perspective explaining how his lengthy stint in the field is a contribution to the field that 
is of major significance. Simply demonstrating a long span accumulating work credits is not a showing 
his body ofwork is commensurate with those who are part of the small fraction ofindividuals at the very 
top offield ofendeavor or that he has amassed a "career ofacclaimed work." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Under the subject area ofthe Petitioner's work on display at artistic exhibitions or showcases-before 
the Director and on appeal-he only highlights one film he appeared in that premiered at the 
Film Festival. The Petitioner offered an article, a single document that appears 
to represent a screenshot of a YouTube interview with one of the film's stars, and a Wikipedia printout 
about the festival. 
We begin with the information from Wikipedia, as there are no assurances about the reliability of the 
content from this open, user-edited internet site. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (Apr. 6, 2024), 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 
909, 910 (8th Cir. 2008). While this documentation is not without value, it carries significantly 
diminished evidentiary weight within the present proceedings and the information on this website must 
be corroborated by additional probative evidence. 
Regarding the film the Petitioner appeared in which premiered at the ________ Film 
Festival, we acknowledge he was billed as one of the film's lead actors. Still, despite that fact, he has 
not illustrated that the film's premier at that festival is sufficiently representative of sustained acclaim. 
5 
Nor is a single instance and the limited supporting evidence present here indicative of the very high 
standard to present more extensive documentation. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). And finally, he does not demonstrate this festival that appears more 
intended to represent independent films is on par with some of the most prestigious festivals such as 
Cannes, Sundance, Venice, or Toronto. 
Regarding the documentation submitted for the category ofevidence at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), while 
the Director decided he performed in a leading or critical role for one qualifying organization in his field, 
they also determined he did not show that his employment as an actor was reflective of, or has resulted 
in, widespread acclaim from his field or that his performance in any role placed him among those at the 
very top of the field. The Director also found that he did not hold any other leading or critical roles for 
organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations. As a result, the Director noted the 
Petitioner's qualifying performance or acclaim for one entity was not sustained as this classification 
mandates. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner refers back to the claims and evidence he presented in the RFE response to 
show that he has performed in a leading or critical role for several entities. But a review of his RFE 
response only reveals that he listed several organizations and asserted he performed both leading and 
critical acting roles for those establishments without offering further arguments of how his performance 
as a single actor was leading or critical for the entity itself This leaves us agreeing with the Director's 
determination relating to this regulatory subject area. The record the Petitioner developed is not indicative 
of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise indicating that he is one of that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
Again, the Director decided that the Petitioner met the high salary criterion pursuant to the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but in the final merits analysis concluded he did not show that his earnings 
were at a level reflecting national or international acclaim or that they placed him among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. In the appeal, he highlights the material that delineates between 
struggling actors who never break through and who do not earn enough to solely rely on their acting 
wages to make a living, as compared to those who can focus solely on acting for their earnings. 
To synthesize the Petitioner's claims, his earnings were well above the average for other actors in general. 
But that is not the type of comparison to directly establish how high his earnings were for other actors at 
the top ofthe field. The Petitioner has not provided information that would enable us to provide a proper 
determination of whether his salary is reflective "ofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." Additionally, on appeal he identifies materials that postdate the petition filing 
date, and we already detailed why that type of evidence will not factor into this decision. 
The Petitioner claims films in which he acted brought in gross revenues of more than $34 million in 
the United States and Canada alone, and more if we were to consider other major countries. But the 
Director didn't even grant the criterion within step one of the adjudication process at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Notably absent from the record is evidence of box office receipts for other commercially successful 
movies in the United States or Canada to which we could compare the box office evidence relating to 
the Petitioner's films. The situation we face again is the record lacks evidence in which to compare 
6 
in a topical area where it is necessary to contrast the Petitioner's accolades with others who are at or 
near the top of the field. And as it relates to the N etflix series the Petitioner advances, he offered a 
contract for that production reflecting he appeared in one episode and he completed his commitment 
to that project in one working day. 
So, despite the popularity that series experienced and his efforts to correlate that to the area of 
commercial success, he does not explain how his presence in one episode in a ten-episode series was 
so consequential that the series' success can measurably be attributed to his appearance. Ultimately, 
the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner's works have garnered sufficiently critical acclaim or 
favorable press reviews or otherwise drew a significant level ofsales in a manner consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he maintained high 
box office receipts reflecting his recognition in the field. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. Although he 
has made notable strides in his career and may be poised for further growth, at this point he remains 
in a liminal stage in his endeavors. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). The Petitioner's evidence confirms that he is an accomplished actor with some work as a lead 
performer. However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level 
ofhis national or international acclaim and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in 
the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive 
documentation exhibiting he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage 
that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that 
burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 26, 2023 In Re: 28586944 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The 
Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that, although the Petitioner 
established that she satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, she did not establish, as required, 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the small percentage at 
the very top of the field. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to 
reconsider, which we dismissed as untimely. The matter is now before us on combined motions to 
reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The official with jurisdiction over a 
motion may, for proper cause shown, reopen the proceeding or reconsider the prior decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5( a)( 1 )(i). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for 
the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new 
evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
Therefore, we begin by discussing the circumstances underlying that decision. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on February 16, 2022. In that decision, we discussed the merits 
of the petition. Upon dismissal ofthe appeal, the Petitioner had 33 days to file a motion. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i). COVID-19 flexibilities then in place added 60 days to the allotted time. See "USCIS 
Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/newsroom/ 
alerts/uscis-extends-flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests-1. As a result, a timely motion had 
to be filed no later than May 20, 2022. 
On May l 0, 2022, the Petitioner attempted to file the combined motions, but U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) rejected the filing as deficient, stating it did not meet filing 
requirements. The Petitioner then re-filed the motion on June 9, 2022, after the filing deadline had 
elapsed. 
We dismissed the motion on February 15, 2023, stating: "The motion to reconsider was filed untimely. 
Thus, the motion does not meet applicable requirements." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) 
requires the dismissal of a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. 
On motion from that decision, the Petitioner contests the dismissal of the earlier motion, stating that 
she filed the motion within the time permitted. The Petitioner submits copies of mailing records and 
asserts that USCIS should have accepted the May 2022 filing. The record, however, does not show 
that the Petitioner properly filed the motion in May 2022. 
The instructions to Form I-290B, Notice ofAppeal or Motion, state on page 7: 
Where To File? 
Use the chart at www.uscis.gov/i-290b-addresses to dete1mine the cmrect filing 
address for your appeal or motion. Form I-290B is not considered received by USCIS 
unless you file it at the proper location. 
DO NOT FILE FORM I-290B DIRECTLY WITH THE AAO. 
The filing address chart mentioned above indicates that, to file a motion on an AAO decision, filers 
should send Form I-290B to "[t]he USCIS office that made the original unfavorable decision." The 
chart includes an illustrative example: 
Example: The USCIS Miami Field Office denied your Form I-601. You filed an appeal 
with the AAO, but AAO dismisses the appeal. You want to file a motion asking that 
AAO reconsider its dismissal. You should file your motion with the Chicago Lockbox 
because the Miami Field Office issued the original denial on your case. 
The Petitioner's motion includes a printout ofthe filing address instructions quoted directly above. 
In this case, the Texas Service Center issued the original unfavorable decision by denying the petition. 
The chart identified above specified that filings disputing Service Center decisions should be sent to 
the "USCIS Phoenix Lockbox." 
2 
On motion, the Petitioner states that she followed these instructions, but evidence submitted on motion 
does not support that claim. 
The Petitioner states: "we filed I-290B on May 10, 2022 to AAO and a copy also submitted to decision 
location -Texas Service Center." The May 2022 cover letter and mailing receipts submitted on 
motion are consistent with this statement. Those documents appear to indicate that, instead of sending 
the complete, original May 2022 filing to the Phoenix Lockbox in accordance with instructions, the 
Petitioner attempted to file the motion directly with the AAO, with a copy sent, without fee, directly 
to the Texas Service Center. The May 2022 cover letter also referred to a courtesy copy sent to the 
Phoenix Lockbox, but the letter did not indicate that the Phoenix Lockbox received a complete filing 
with both a brief and the required fee. 
Correspondence submitted with the latest motion indicates that the Phoenix Lockbox received the May 
2022 motion on May 19, 2022 and rejected it on May 31, 2022, stating the motion lacked necessary 
information and therefore was not complete. The Form I-290B that the Petitioner executed in May 
2022 did not include any information about the basis for the motion, and therefore if it were filed 
without either the brief or the fee then it would not have constituted a complete, properly executed 
motion. The available evidence does not establish that the May 2022 mailing to the Phoenix Lockbox 
included both the brief and the fee. 
The AAO does not directly accept motion filings, and therefore the Form I-290B instructions 
specifically direct applicants and petitioners not to "file Form I-290B directly with the AAO." 
By the time the Petitioner refiled the complete motion with the Phoenix Lockbox in June 2022, the 
filing deadline had passed. 
Every form, benefit request, or other document must be submitted and executed in accordance with 
the form instructions. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l). Here, the Form I-290B instructs petitioners not to send 
motions directly to the AAO, but the Petitioner did so anyway. The Petitioner cites this direct mailing 
to the AAO as evidence of timely filing, but it serves to indicate that the Petitioner did not timely and 
properly file the May 2022 motion in accordance with the form instructions to retain a filing date. 
The postal documentation submitted on motion constitutes new evidence relating to the mailing and 
delivery of the prior motion, but the new evidence does not establish that we erred in dismissing the 
first motion as untimely. Rather, it confirms that the May 2022 motion was not properly filed. 
Therefore, the newly submitted evidence does not establish proper cause to reopen the proceeding. 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. The Petitioner has not met 
her burden of proof to establish that she made any timely submission that complied with applicable 
policy and regulations. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21441044 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a I I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did 
not establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act; Matter oJChawath e, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a coach. He states that he intends to continue 
his work as a lcoach in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional 
publications or major media, and judging the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in his field, display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions 
and showcases, and leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (vii), and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or discounted the extensive evidence 
submitted pertaining to his sustained acclaim, and we agree with that assertion. Here, the Director's 
final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the 
evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to 
seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses 
evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined the Petitioner had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. The final merits analysis narrowly focuses on the criteria 
relating to lesser awards, published material, and judging, and does not assess whether the submitted 
evidence in support of those criteria shows sustained national or international acclaim. For instance, 
the Petitioner on appeal highlights each individual award he has received, and argues that his receipt of 
such "prestigious medals at high-level events before the filing of the petition" is indicative of his sustained 
international acclaim. However, the Director's final merits analysis simply states that the Petitioner won 
"won six awards between the years of2011 and 2020" without any further analysis or discussion of those 
awards. 
In addition to narrowly focusing on the above-referenced criteria, the Director's final merits analysis 
failed to consider the totality of the material provided in support of the petition. The record includes 
multiple expert opinion letters from U.S. professionals, past employers, and industry experts that 
address the Petitioner's standing in the field, evidence related to his professional memberships, and 
evidence of his roles and contributions as a I coach. Because the Director did not consider any 
of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2023 In Re: 28154174 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate the 
petitioner's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the petitioner meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows the petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context ofthe totality ofthe evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner started surfing at the age of 11 and entered the competitive surfing arena at the age of 
16. During her career she has participated in various surfing events, including those sponsored by the 
International Surfing Association (ISA) -at the world junior surf competition, the Brazilian 
Association of Professional Surfing (ABRASP), and the Professional Junior (PRO JR) and World 
Qualifying Series (WQS). Additionally, she has participated in "free surfing" events which "entails 
[ a group of surfers] traveling to unexplored locations, places rarely visited by tourists" in order to surf 
there, which were documented by social media and movie production firms. The Petitioner states that 
she will continue to surf competitively and will accept an employment offer from a private firm who 
"specialize[ s] in facilitating the creation of commercial relationships between professional surf 
athletes, media companies, and surf brands operating in the surf industry." 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii) -relating to published material and display of her work, 
which is supported by the record. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets three other regulatory criteria relating to awards, 
membership, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (viii). She does not 
assert eligibility under the judging (iv), original contributions (v), authorship (vi), high salary (ix), or 
commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address 
these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). We 
2 
have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. While we may not discuss every document in the 
record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of this regulation, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner is the recipient of prizes or 
awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and that each prize or award is 
one for excellence in the field of endeavor. See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, (which provides a non-exhaustive 
list ofrelevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion). 
The Director reviewed the initial evidence, then issued a request for evidence (RFE), advising the 
Petitioner that she had not demonstrated that the claimed awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized and requested additional documentary evidence in support of her eligibility under this 
criterion. The Director stated that such evidence should demonstrate the criteria used to grant the 
awards, their significance (including the national or international recognition associated with the 
awards), the reputation of the organization or panel granting the awards, the geographic scope of the 
awards and any limitations on competitors, the number of awards or prizes granted, evidence related 
to previous award winners, and public announcements of the awards. 
As evidence of her lesser national or international awards, the Petitioner offered evidence initially and 
in the RFE response, such as background material about the competitive surfing sport, the 
organizations that oversee the competitive surfing sports and the entities that have sponsored the 
surfing events that she has competed in. She also provided evidence of her participation in surfing 
events and her competitive ranking relative to other participants based on her surfing performance 
therein. The Director denied the petition, in part, concluding that the evidence submitted was 
insufficient to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first points to her participation on "Team Brazil" at the 2006 ISAI I 
.____________ __.I asserting that she won a bronze medal at this junior-level event as a 
member of the team, and that the Director erred in determining that her competitive placement in this 
event did not meet the plain language of this criterion. The Petitioner provided a May 2006 media 
article about this event.[ Iwhich indicates that 
she and another Brazilian teammate were "eliminated by Australian [K-T-] and New Zealander [ A­
M-] in the first women's event." It is not apparent from the evidence provided that any award or medal 
garnered by Team Brazil at this event can be directly attributed to the Petitioner as an award or prize 
that meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Moreover, ISA's online ranking data for this "under the age of 18 (U18)" event, reflects that Brazilian 
surfer D-S-was credited with 3rd place ranking for U18 women competitors, not the Petitioner. See 
generally https://isasurfor~ I While the Petitioner provides a picture of herself 
with an award and maintains that she won a bronze medal at this event, other evidence submitted with 
3 
the petition and from ISA' s website suggests otherwise. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency 
and ambiguity in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Without more, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner's participation at this event does not meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also contests the Director's determination that her 9th place showing in two 
WQS surfing competitions,~-----------------------~were not 
equivalent to actually receiving an award. The Director observed that the record did not reflect, for 
example, that publications or news outlets with a national or international audience reported on her 9th 
place finishes, nor did the Petitioner provide other evidence sufficient to show that a 9th place finish 
in these competitions is accepted in the field of competitive surfing as national or international 
recognition for excellence. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that WQS is "pro surfing's minor league," that its events are difficult, and 
that "[anyone] who wants to get to world championship level has to compete in WQS tour events and 
gain enough points to be ranked in the WQS top 16 at the end of the year." On appeal, she provides 
general evidence about WQS and WQS events, and information specific to the events she participated 
in. She also notes that other competitive surfers who currently rank toward the top level in the World 
Surf League (WSL) competed against her at these events. But she does not adequately address the 
Director's concern that the record does not reflect that her own 9th place showing at these events 
constitutes her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in 
the field of professional surfing. For these reasons, this criterion has not been met. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, which in 
this case is professional surfing. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2. 
The Petitioner maintains that she met this criterion based on her membership in several organizations, 
including WSL, ABRASP, and the Confederacao Brasileira de Surf (CBS). The Director determined 
that the initial evidence did not provide sufficient evidence about the Petitioner's membership in these 
organizations or their membership requirements to establish that this criterion had been met. In the 
RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not establish that she is a 
member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding achievements in the 
field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. He requested 
evidence to establish her membership in these organizations and information about the organizations' 
membership offerings, such as the sections of their bylaws or similar evidence which discuss the 
criteria for membership and the qualifications required of those who review membership applications. 
4 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner did not sufficiently address this aspect. Turning to 
her WSL membership, the Petitioner provided a letter from P-, the president of the Brazilian surfing 
confederation who indicates that she holds membership in the WSL. In his letter he notes that the 
Petitioner was selected to participate in the WQS professional surfing events based on her ranking 
among women surfers under the age of 18, and through this process she gained membership in WSL. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide the requested information from WSL to illustrate their varying 
levels of membership, if any, nor did she provide WSL's bylaws or similar documentation which 
discuss their criteria for membership and identifies the qualifications of the individuals who review its 
membership applications. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided letters from other individuals that discuss the Petitioner's 
membership in other surfing-related organizations, which suggest that she gained membership based 
on her competitive surfing record, but she did not provide specific membership-related evidence from 
these organizations. The Petitioner denied the petition, in part, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient evidence from the organizations in which she claims to hold membership that 
describing their membership requirements and how members are selected. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in his determination that the evidence 
provided was insufficient to meet the plain language requirements ofthis criterion. In her appeal brief: 
she incorporates the same narrative that she submitted in response to the Director's RFE, including 
the same excerpts of the letters that we mention above which were considered by the Director in 
denying the petition. She references a copy of the "CBS Rule Book detailing [its membership] 
selection process" that she previously submitted and asserts that the Director ignored the evidence she 
offered about CBS. However, we conclude that the Petitioner's reliance on this material to establish 
eligibility under this criterion is misplaced. The submitted "CBS Rule Book" comprises the first three 
pages of a ten-page internet document which discusses CBS' history and identifies the various 
categories under which a surfer can compete, such as the "U18: For male and female surfers who are 
not 19 during the year" category and provides a chart listing how it will rank competitors during its 
surfing events. This material does not identify the types of memberships that CBS offers, its criteria 
for membership, and how individuals are selected for membership. 
Considering the Petitioner's statements and the reference letters, as well as the evidence provided from 
the WSL, ABRASP, and CBS organizations' websites -which based on our review do not appear to 
address their membership requirements -we determine the record does not contain sufficient 
documentary evidence to demonstrate the organizations' membership eligibility requirements, how 
members are selected, and that the Petitioner's own asserted membership in these organizations was 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field of professional surfing. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. In the 
5 
I evidence before the Director the Petitioner stated that she qualifies for this criterion based on her 
competitive surfing record, and in other activities that she has engaged in to promote the sport, 
including the surfing documentaries, marketing campaigns, and the film festivals where some of this 
material has been shown. 
The Director denied the petition in part, noting that the record did not substantiate the Petitioner's 
claim of having performed in a leading or critical role for organizations, such as the WSL,I 
(J-) magazine, and a film company, I l(C-). With regard to WSL, the Petitioner references 
the letter from P-who suggests that the Petitioner's surfing record as a member of the junior-level 
TEAM Brazil in 2006, and later as a surfing competitor in the WQS minor league rises to the level of 
performing in a leading or critical role for the WSL organization. P-does not indicate whether the 
Petitioner has ever been employed by WSL or explain how her leadership and critical role 
contributions to WSL compares to others who are holding positions of authority and responsibility 
within the organization. P-also mentions the media outlets and documentary film productions that 
the Petitioner has been involved with, noting that "her trajectory and skills in surfing have granted 
broad recognition in the surf community and have enabled her to be featured in multiple publications 
and documentaries," which plays an important role in the promotion of the sport." 
While we acknowledge that the WSL may enjoy a distinguished reputation in the surfing world, 
without more, the evidence falls short in establishing how the Petitioner's involvement in WQS events 
and media activities which generally promote the sport of surfing translates into her performing a 
leading or critical role for the WSL organization, itself. 
Turning to her activities for J-magazine, the owner of the magazine provided a letter, stating "[b ]y 
featuring [the Petitioner] on social media posts, working with her on photo shoots, and launching a 
series of stories from her global travels, the strategy is already exceeding my expectation as Brazil is 
now our second largest audience. I owe this almost entirely to [the Petitioner]." As noted by the 
Director in the denial, J-made the editorial decision to feature the Petitioner's images in their 
publication, but the evidence does not suggest that she held any actual role in the company itself. 
Additionally, we note that the Director requested evidence to show that J-has a distinguished 
reputation, but the Petitioner has not addressed this issue other than stating in the RFE response that 
J-"has been the online destination for women surfers and girl surfers looking for the best surf photos 
video clips, and surfing stories. It is a leading organization in the important role of empowering 
women in a sport that has been historically dominated by men." Notably, she did not substantiate her 
assertions regarding J-'s reputation with supporting documentary evidence, as requested by the 
Director. 
Similarly, the Petitioner looks to her involvement in a film project, which was directed by the C-film 
company, for the proposition that she performed a leading or critical role for this organization. The 
record contains a letter from the director and executive producer of this film project, in which he 
describes the success of the project and the Petitioner's involvement therein: 
In recent years we have produced an average of seven original series per year for our 
main client [] and in 2019 we received a world medal at New York Festivals for a series 
shot between Alaska and Russia, named []. The success of [this series], besides its 
multi-layered production design and technical challenges, lies in the talent that took 
6 
part m 1t. [The Petitioner] was a joy to work with and it was a wonderful surprise to 
learn that her talent goes well beyond the world of sports. [She] is a committed 
professional and a pivotal part of the team that handled with perseverance, wit and 
unlimited dedication the complexities of such a production. We strongly recommend 
[her] to any future venture and are totally available for further inputs about how 
important it was to have her on board with us on this award-winning project. 
The Director discussed this evidence and noted that C-featured the Petitioner in a film project but the 
evidence did not show that she held a role within C-. Additionally, though the Petitioner emphasized 
that C-won a film award for her project, she did not provide evidence sufficient to establish that C-is 
an organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that she did not hold any actual role within these media 
companies and asserts "her involvement as a woman surfer demonstrates a level of recognition and 
interest in her skills and abilities within the industry." To meet this criterion the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that she has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation, not that she enjoys a level of recognition and interest within her 
industry. For the foregoing reasons, this criterion has not been met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the 
required initial evidence ofeither a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of her professional achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small percentage ofindividuals 
who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2024 In Re: 33940727 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientist engaged in biomedical research, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the 
regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; they seek to enter 
the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and their entry will offer 
substantia l prospective benefits to the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
petitioner's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that they meet at least three of 
the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Viscinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2dl339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
biomedical sciences. The record reflects that the Petitioner completed her graduate studies in 
Germany, where she received a master's degree in animal biology and biomedical sciences in 2013 
and a Ph.D. in natural sciences in 2019. Following completion of her studies, she was employed as a 
clinical trial coordinator for a veterinary research center in I I Germany for approximately 18 
months. She indicates she will continue her work as a research scientist if granted lawful permanent 
residence in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (vi) and (vii) but concluded she satisfied only one of these criteria. 
Specifically, the Director found the Petitioner demonstrated that she has authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record, which includes evidence that 
the Petitioner has published her work in The Journal ofAllergy and Clinical Immunology and PLOS 
One, supports the Director's determination that this criterion has been met. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination that the previously submitted evidence 
was insufficient to demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally awards, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), and her original scientific contributions of major significance in her field, 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 1 We will discuss her claims and evidence relating to these two criteria 
1 In her brief in support of the appeaL the Petitioner does not address or contest the Director's determination that she did 
not meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii), relating to published materials about her and her work in 
professional publications or major media, and display of her work in artistic exhibitions or showcases. An issue not raised 
on appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
below. For the reasons provided, we conclude the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least 
three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
l. Receipt of Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes or Awards 
To evaluate whether the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we first must 
determine whether she was the recipient of the claimed prize or award. Second, we evaluate whether 
the award received is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on an award she received for a poster 
presentation at the 2015 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) Annual 
Congress. She submitted a short article about her receipt of the award that was posted on the website 
ofI I The article identifies the Petitioner as a doctoral student at this institution and 
states she "was awarded ... for her poster contribution 
The Petitioner also submitted her resume, 
which indicates she received a "Poster Prize in the category at 
the 2015 EAACI Congress Poster Session. 
In addition, the record includes an online promotion for the 2020 EAACI Congress posted on the 
website eMedEvents, and background information regarding the history and mission of the EAACI, 
which is described as "the largest medical association in Europe in the field of allergy and clinical 
immunology." Finally, two of the three submitted recommendation letters in the record reference the 
Petitioner's receipt of an award for her poster presentation at the 2015 EAACI Congress. 
The Director concluded the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to demonstrate that her award 
meets this criterion. In reaching this determination, the Director acknowledged the submitted article 
stating that she won an award for her poster presentation at the EAACI annual conference but emphasized 
that she did not submit sufficient documentation from the issuing entity confirming her receipt of the 
award. Further, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of material about EAACI but 
emphasized she did not provide documentary evidence confirming the specific award she received, the 
criteria used to grant it, or the national or international recognition associated with the award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to demonstrate 
that she received a poster award at the 2015 EAACI Annual Congress, and that, given the size and 
reputation of EAACI and its annual meeting, she met her burden to demonstrate that her award is 
nationally or internationally recognized in the field. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). First, while the record supports the Petitioner's 
assertion that she received a "poster award" at the 2015 EAACI Annual Congress, it does not contain 
evidence that identifies the specific award she received or the criteria for granting it. In a request for 
evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that to show her receipt of an award, she should 
provide: a copy of the award certificate, a clear photograph of the award, or a public announcement 
regarding the awarding of prizes or awards issued by the granting organization (emphasis added). 
Neither the Petitioner's initial submission nor her response to the RFE included one of these types of 
3 
evidence. We therefore agree with the Director's determination that there is insufficient primary 
evidence of the specific award she received at the 2015 EAACI Annual Congress. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) recognizes that qualifying awards may include 
"certain awards recognizing presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences." 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing 
how USCIS evaluates initial evidence of extraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)). The evidence the Petitioner submitted establishes the international reputation of the 
EAACI and its annual meeting, but the record lacks evidence regarding the specific awards it issues 
at these meetings. In considering whether the basis for granting an award was excellence in the field, 
relevant considerations include the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards in the field, the number of awardees or prize recipients and 
any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner states in her resume that she received a "Poster Prize in the ______I I category at the 2015 EAACI Congress Poster Session. As noted above while 
"certain awards" recognizing presentations at this type of conference may qualify, it is the Petitioner's 
burden to demonstrate that the specific award she received satisfies the plain language ofthe criterion; 
we cannot conclude that every award bestowed at an international conference automatically satisfies 
the plain language of this regulation. 
Here the Petitioner's own description of her poster award suggests it was in a category that included 
presentations by Iand that she received it while she was still a doctoral student. 
National or international recognition is often associated with awards given to individuals at the highest 
level in a given field; however, in some instances the evidence may establish that an award is nationally 
or internationally recognized despite being limited to early-career professionals. See generally, 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Here, however, the record does not include the objective 
evidence needed to make this determination as it does not identify the specific award the Petitioner 
received, or the criteria used to grant it. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has made 
original contributions in her field and that such contributions are of "major significance." Evidence 
that may be relevant to demonstrate the major significance of a person's work includes testimonials, 
letters or affidavits about the person's original work, published materials that discuss the significance 
of their work, documentation that the person's work has been cited at a level indicative of major 
significance in the field, and patents or licenses deriving from the person's work. See generally 6 
USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)( I). Such evidence may demonstrate, for example, that the 
person's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have provoked widespread 
commentary, have had a substantial impact or influence in the field, or have otherwise risen to a level 
of major significance. 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted copies of her published research articles, 
citation evidence for her published work, documentation regarding the ranking and impact factor of a 
4 
journal that published two of her articles, and letters of support from colleagues with expertise in her 
field. The Director considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate 
the Petitioner has made original scientific contributions of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a summary of the previously submitted evidence and asserts that 
"[a]ll of this research, experimentation and dedicated scientific inquiry, borne from intense academic 
training and work in her field of endeavor, is original and significant." While the evidence indicates 
that the Petitioner is a highly trained and capable research scientist producing original work, we agree 
with the Director's determination that she has not met her burden to demonstrate that her original 
research contributions to date are of major significance in her field. 
The record includes evidence that three of the Petitioner's published articles had received 52 
cumulative citations as of February 2023 when the petition was filed. Specifically, the evidence 
showed that her article titled I I published in The Journal o Aller 
and Clinical Immunology in 2019 had received 25 citations; her article titled 
ublished in PLOS One in 
2018, had received 20 citations; and her article titled 
published in The Journal ofAllergy and 
Clinical Immunology in 2020 had received 7 citations. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or written work. To support an assertion that an original published work is recognized in the field as 
a contribution of major significance, we will consider evidence that the person's research has been 
cited at a level indicative of that significance, such as documentation that it has been highly cited 
relative to others' work in the same field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "the more an author is cited in scientific publications, the more 
significant her work must be considered." She further contends that "if her work is relied on by dozens 
of researchers in their scientific publications, this provides clear evidence that her work has major 
significance in her field." However, the Petitioner has not provided evidence showing that the number 
of citations received by any of her published articles is unusually high in her field or otherwise 
documented how the number of citations her work has received compares to other articles that the 
field views as having been majorly significant. Without comparative evidence indicating the 
frequency at which other articles in her field are cited, for example, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that the number of citations received by her published work is indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that field has 
noticed her work, she has not established that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a 
level of interest in her field commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director erroneously disregarded the probative value ofevidence 
showing that she has published her work in The Journal ofAllergy and Clinical Immunology, one of 
the top journals in her field based on its impact factor. She contends "the fact that [her] scientific work 
has been published in the second-most cited journal on allergy research is clear evidence of the 
significance and originality of her work." However, a journal's high ranking or impact factor reflects 
the publication's overall citation rate. The impact factor does not show an individual author's 
influence or the impact of their specific published research on the field. As such, the record does not 
5 
support the Petitioner's suggestion that any article published in a highly ranked journal must be 
deemed to be an original scientific contribution of major significance. Evidence that a person's work 
was published, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, 
on its own, that the work is of major significance in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). The significance of the work must be established through other evidence. 
The Petitioner also provided partial copies of several research and review articles that cite to her 
published work. The brief submitted on appeal highlights a review article titled 
I published in The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology in 2022, which 
addresses "key studies" published in the mast cells (MC) research field in 2020 and 2021. The 
Petitioner's 2020 article is cited in a section titled where the author notes 
that her research group 
" The submitted version of this article includes only 
"section snippets" and does not include the full text of the author's reference to the Petitioner's work, 
cutting off mid-sentence. The conclusion section of this review article states that the "studies 
presented herein provide new knowledge into the origins of MCs and their physiological and 
pathological functions" and observes that the cited research may guide future therapeutic advances 
and strategies to target MCs. 
Based on this evidence, we can conclude that the review article's author considered the Petitioner's work 
to be original and valuable. But its inclusion in this review article does not automatically lead to a 
conclusion that the Petitioner's article, or any of the other 48 articles cited, is already recognized in the 
field as a contribution of major significance. The record shows that the Petitioner's cited article, 
published in I 12020, had been cited six other times in the three years since its publication, but as 
discussed above, the record does not contain comparative evidence demonstrating that this is indicative 
of a high rate of citation in the Petitioner's field, or otherwise lend support for a determination that this 
published research represents a contribution of major significance. Rather, the review article's author 
recognized the cited studies for contributing "new knowledge" in a specific research field and noted the 
potential for this research to impact this field in the future. This review article and others like it 
acknowledge the Petitioner's contributions to the advancement of what appears to be an active area of 
research but are not indications that her work has substantially influenced the field or otherwise rises to 
the level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
Additionally, the Petitioner points to the three recommendation letters she submitted from experts in 
her field and contends that the Director "fails to consider that the three experts reference [her] 
publications and work, detail the impact it has had in her field, and then provide their expert opinion 
on the significance of such impact." Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature 
and significance of a petitioner's contributions may provide valuable context for evaluating a claimed 
original contribution of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation 
corroborating the claimed significance. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the referenced letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor 
does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to show that the Petitioner's original 
research contributions are of major significance in her field. 
For example, Dr. I I a senior scientist at a Dutch biomedical research and development 
company, generally asserts that the Petitioner "has achieved noteworthy advances in biomedical 
6 
research and development" but does not identify these advances with any specificity, explain why they 
are noteworthy, or state how they have influenced their shared field. He further asserts the Petitioner 
has made "significant contributions in the area ofrespiratory diseases" but likewise does not elaborate 
on her specific contributions in this area or their significance. Dr. I I letter mentions the 
Petitioner's poster award, her two publications in the Journal ofAllergy and Clinical Immunology, 
and the 45 cumulative citations received by her two most-cited articles, stating that these 
accomplishments demonstrate her extraordinary ability in biomedical research and development. 
However, he does not explain how her publications, her awarded poster presentation, and her citation 
history are probative of the major significance ofher specific scientific contributions in her field, such 
that they establish her eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
A letter from Dr.I I a professor of respiratory medicine at a United Kingdom medical 
school, discusses the Petitioner's receipt of an award for her poster presentation at the 2015 EAACT 
Annual Congress, noting that the award is "a clear indication of the value her work has for her fellow 
scientists." He does not, however, provide any details regarding the research the Petitioner presented 
at the conference or explain how it constituted an original contribution of major significance in the 
field. Dr. I lalso states that the Petitioner's two most cited articles, published in 2018 and 2020, 
have been relied on by other researchers worldwide, and have received citations in review articles. 
Other than noting that these publications were cited by authors of review articles, the letter does not 
elaborate on her published research, her specific original contributions, or their influence or impact on 
further research in the field. As discussed above, the record does not support a determination that 
every publication cited in a review article is recognized as an original contribution of major 
significance in a given field. 
The third and final reference letter is from Dr . ____________ who states that he 
supervised the Petitioner during her Ph.D. studies. He emphasizes her publication of two articles in 
the Journal ofAllergy and Clinical Immunology and the journal's leading reputation in the field, 
stating the selection of her work for publication in this journal provides "strong evidence of its 
originality and importance to the biomedical sciences." Dr.I lletter does not, however, provide 
details regarding the Petitioner's published research or how it is regarded in the field as particularly 
influential, nor has he otherwise clarified how it is recognized as a contribution of major significance. 
As discussed above, evidence of publication in a highly ranked journal does not automatically meet a 
petitioner's burden to demonstrate that they have made contributions of major significance in their 
field. Dr.I lalso generally asserts that the Petitioner's "abilities are clear from her previous work 
in research & development," highlighting her prior research positions, but he does not specify any 
contributions of major significance that resulted from that work. 
Overall, the expert letters have not elaborated or discussed whether the Petitioner's findings have been 
implemented beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent 
of their application. While the letters praise the Petitioner's research as original, valuable and 
promising, they have not sufficiently detailed in what ways her studies have already advanced the state 
of research in her or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider field 
beyond the teams of researchers who have directly cited her articles. 
Finally, we note that counsel, in his appellate brief: makes additional claims regarding the Petitioner's 
published research in an effort to demonstrate the significance of her contributions. For example, he 
7 
explains that the Petitioner's work "is at the forefront of developing novel therapies for [asthma] 
patients who are insensitive to inhaled corticosteroids or who cannot use them due to their side effects" 
and that her studies of mast cells "have contributed in significant and original ways" to this "new 
frontier in the treatment of asthma" and "opened a potential therapeutic application." Counsel does 
not point to specific evidence in the record that supports these claims. Counsel's unsubstantiated 
assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) 
("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any 
evidentiary weight"). 
Considered together, the evidence submitted in support of this criterion establishes that the Petitioner 
has been a productive researcher, and that her published data and findings have been cited by others 
in their own research. However, for the reasons discussed, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's original research contributions are of major significance in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that she meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude it 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner has the sustained acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability"). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one ofthe small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2024 In Re: 33790981 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidentiary requirements through either a receipt of a one-time 
achievement or satisfaction of at least three ofthe ten categories of evidence. We dismissed the appeal 
and three subsequent motion filings. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
The Petitioner acknowledges that his motion filing is late. He provides evidence showing that he 
attempted to file the motions (Notice of Appeal or Motion, Form I-290B) on April 12, 2024, and again 
on April 23, 2024, but that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) rejected the filings 
because the check submitted as payment of the filing fee was returned by the bank. The Petitioner 
again attempted to file the motions in May 2024. The record indicates that USCIS received the filing, 
along with the correct fee payment, on Monday, May 20, 2024. 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l) and 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b), in general, motions must be filed within 33 days 
of the adverse decision. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(i) explains that the filing date is "the 
actual date of receipt at the location designated for filing such benefit request whether electronically 
or in paper format." In addition, 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(B) specifies that a motion filing must 
include a fee payment of the correct amount. As relating to a motion to reopen the proceeding, the 
filing deadline may be excused if a petitioner demonstrates that the delay was reasonable and was 
beyond their control. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l). 
We will dismiss the Petitioner's combined motions because they are untimely filed. Our latest motion 
decision was issued on March 18, 2024. The Petitioner properly filed his motions on May 20, 2024, 1 
63 days after we issued the adverse decision. While the evidence indicates that the delay was due to 
the Petitioner's fee payment being dishonored by the bank on first two occasions when he attempted 
to file the current motions, he has not argued or shown through documentation that the delay in filing 
is reasonable and beyond his control. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). With respect to the 
motion to reconsider, neither the Act nor the pertinent regulations grant us authority to extend the 33-
day time limit for filing a motion to reconsider. Accordingly, the combined motions will be dismissed 
as untimely filed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 When computing the period oftime for filing an appeal or motion, USCIS counts every calendar day (including Saturdays, 
Sundays, and legal holidays) starting the first calendar day after the date USCIS mailed the unfavorable decision. If the 
last day of the filing period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the period to file an appeal or motion runs until 
the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678683 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a materials scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's de ee atl ITJniversity in China in 2016. While he was a 
graduate student at the Universit of he conducted research concerning the use of 
I I alloys to produce and to charge electronic devices. After he earned a 
master's degree in chemistry in 2018, the Petitioner began working forl I inl I 
California. He now holds H-1B nonimmigrant status.1 The Petitioner's most recent research focuses on 
I lused inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied all three claimed criteria. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original contributions 
of major si ificance in the field. The Petitioner stated that "[h]]e is especially well-known for evaluating 
filtratio disinfection methods. Furthermore, [ the Petitioner's] work on 
efficacy has impacted the World Health Organization's and Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention's guidance regarding! I during equipment shortages during the COVID-19 health 
crisis." 
The Petitioner submitted partial copies of 11 of his journal articles. The four most recent articles deal 
with I I Many of the other articles, published between 
1 On August 20, 2021, the Petitioner filed a Form I-140 petition on his own behalf, seeking to classify himselfas an 
individual of exceptional ability or a member of the professions holding an advanced degree under section 203(b )(2)(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner also sought a national interest waiver of the requirement for a job offer, under section 
203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. That petition, with receipt number I was approvedon August26. 2022. 
2 
2015 and 2020, concern the use of __ alloys for charging electronic devices orl for use in I _____ 
The Petitioner submitted an October2021 printout from Google Scholar, showing the numberofcitations 
each article had received before that time. The Petitioner's three articles with the highest number of 
citations were as follows: 
• ACS Nano 2020, 
249 citations 
• -----------------------~Vouk 
2019 1 77 citations 
• 
Nano Letters 2020, 132 citations 
Ten other articles published between 2015 and 2020 had each accumulated less than 50 citations, for a 
cumulative total of 841 citations. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "the record does not establish a pattern of producing heavily 
cited research consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute demands." 
As worded, this statement conflates the initial evidentiary threshold, relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), with the later step of the final merits determination, in which sustained national or 
international acclaim comes into play. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director does not appear to have fully considered all the evidence 
or explained why it is insufficient to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director also 
discussed, at some length, information from "the Academiclnfluence.com website." The record does not 
contain any printouts from that site, and the Petitioner's correspondence does not mention the site.2 
Because this information is not in the record, we cannot tell how the named individuals were selected and 
ranked, nor can we determine how authoritative the website is in that regard. 
Even then, the Director cited this outside information to support the conclusion that the Petitioner "would 
not stack up in comparison to the top IO or even the top 50" materials scientists listed on that site. In the 
context of the regulatory criterion, an individual's rank in the field is not a factor; the requirement is 
"original contributions of major significance." Even in the broader context of the final merits 
determination, there is no requirement that an individual must rank among "the top 50" in a given field 
in order to demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim. 
Relying on a 2021 printout of "InCites Essential Science Indicators" from Clarivate Analytics, which 
includes a table of citation rates in materials science, the Petitioner noted that the citation of his work put 
his ACS Nano article in the top 0.01 % for its year of publication, and the articles from Joule and Nano 
Letters each in the top O .1 %. Given this information, it is reasonable to conclude that at least some of the 
Petitioner's articles have been heavily cited relative to others in the field of mate1ials science. 
2 It therefore appears thatthe Directorrelied, in part, on information from outside the record of proceeding, withoutpriornotice 
to the Petitioner as required by 8 C .F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). 
3 
Between the heavy citation of some of the Petitioner's articles and explanations of the relevance and 
implications of the work cited, the record is sufficient to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
that the Petitioner has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage atthe very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not give sufficient weight to the heavy citation of the 
Petitioner's work in the context of the threshold criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). At the same time, 
however, the citation of some of the Petitioner's recent work is not sufficient to establish sustained 
national or international acclaim in the context of the final me1its determination. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3) clearly describes that the Petitioner must establish sustained 
national or international acclaim as an individual; the statuteandregulations do not contemplate collective 
acclaim forresearch teams or employers. This is significant because the Petitioner is one of eight credited 
co-authors of the A CS Nano article described above. In a letter submitted with the petition, a co-author 
of that article described the overall project, without addressing the division oflabor among the eight co­
authors to properly analyze the Beneficiary's contribution. 
In a request for evidence, the Director asked for "as much detail as possible about the [Petitioner's] 
contribution." In response, the article's primary author stated that the Petitioner "was just as influential 
as I was in terms of the overall effort made and the final outcome. In our work together, I personally 
observed [the Petitioner's] significant skills in the field of chemistry. His leadership, innovative spirit, 
and expert understanding of the subject matter were all key factors in this project's success." These 
assertions, however, provide no details as to how the Petitioner contributed to the project. We note that 
the Petitioner did not submit a complete copy of the ACS Nano article, and the record does not reveal 
whether the missing portion of the article sheds more light on the nature of the Petitioner's contributions 
to the project. The record does not show, for instance, whether the Petitioner conceived of the project, 
set the protocols, or performed comparatively smaller laboratory tasks such as measurements, sample 
preparation, ordatacollection, underthe direction of others. 
Furthermore, when considering the record as a whole for the final merits determination, we note that a 
researcher can readily satisfy theregulatorycriteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi) without attaining 
sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner's activity as a judge of the work of others has 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
4 
been as a peer reviewer of manuscripts, which appears to be a routine activity in academia rather than a 
reflection of sustained national or international acclaim. Likewise, authorship of one's own scholarly 
articles appears to be integral to scientific research. The Petitioner notes that some of the journals that 
have published his work boast high impact factors, a measure of overall citation frequency, but it does 
not follow that a researcher who publishes in those journals is, forthatreason, invariably or presumptively 
more acclaimed than his or her peers. 
The Petitioner has undertaken research in important areas, with implications not only for public health 
but also clean energy generation, consistent with the recent approval of another immigrant petition under 
a lesser classification. His collaborators at I include some very prominent names. However, the 
Beneficiary has not attained or demonstrated comparable prominence himself.. The record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner, as an individual, has achieved sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has worked on teams that produced some influential 
papers, but he has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21340921 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a city branding expert, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker 
(Form 1-140), concluding that record did not establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence 
requirements through evidence of a one-time achievement , or, in the alternative , evidence that satisfied 
at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further determined 
that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts with respect to her authorship record. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which the 
Director dismissed as untimely. The Petitioner now appeals the Director's dismissal of the combined 
motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we emphasize that the Petitioner has not appealed the denial of the Form 1-
140 itself, but rather the Director's subsequent dismissal of her combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. Although the Petitioner's appeal includes additional evidence in support of her petition, 
the merits of the initial denial decision, and of the underlying petition, are not before us. The only 
issue before us on appeal is whether the Petitioner has established that the Director erred by dismissing 
her combined motions. 
The record reflects that the Director denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140 on March 2, 2021. The 
Petitioner filed her combined motions to reopen and reconsider in response to that unfavorable 
decision on May 28, 2021. 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 
103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that 
Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable 
decision. Based on this extended deadline, the Petitioner's previous motion on the Director's March 
2, 2021, decision would have been deemed timely filed if received by USCIS on or before May 4, 
2021, which includes the 60-day period plus three days for mailing. As noted, the Petitioner filed the 
combined motions on May 28, 2021. On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the motions were 
untimely filed. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this [30-day] period expires may be excused 
in the discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond 
the control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). Although the prior motion 
was a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, the regulations do not provide discretion 
for USCIS to excuse the untimely filing of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, our review is limited to 
whether the Director should have exercised his discretion to consider the merits of the untimely motion 
to reopen. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director's decision to dismiss the 
untimely motion was appropriate. 
A review of the Petitioner's submission on motion reveals that she provided no explanation or 
justification for its late filing and therefore did not meet her burden to demonstrate that the delay was 
reasonable. Accordingly, the Director had no basis to excuse the late filing of the motion to reopen 
under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) and was not required to consider the merits of the motion. The 
Petitioner has not established that the Director erred by dismissing it as untimely. USCIS cannot grant 
a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner asserts that the late filing was 
caused by "human error" that resulted in a miscalculation of the deadline for filing the motion. She 
asserts, however, that the error was reasonable because USCIS issued confusing guidance on 
pandemic-related filing flexibilities that led her to believe that she had 90 calendar days, rather than 
60 days, to file the motion. 
As noted, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B to 
account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as extending 
deadlines for other actions, such as responses to requests for additional evidence. An announcement 
published by USCIS on January 28, 2021, was in effect at the time the Director denied the Petitioner's 
Form 1-140 on March 2, 2021. That announcement states that USCIS "will consider a Form N-336 or 
Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision before we take any action."1 
The Petitioner has not explained how this announcement can be interpreted as allowing an affected 
party to file a Form I-290B up to 90 days after the date of an adverse decision. 2 
1 See "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," (Jan. 28, 2021 ), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
news/alerts/uscis-extends- flexibility- for-responding-to-agency-requests-3. 
2 The USCIS announcement that the Petitioner characterizes as "confusing" was issued on March 27, 2020 and expired on 
May 1, 2020. 
2 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the COVID-19 flexibility policy was created with the 
intention of giving petitioners and applicants more time to collect documentation in support of their 
benefit requests and appeals. The Petitioner asserts that it would be "extremely unfair and prejudicial" 
for USCIS to make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact without providing her with 
a chance to respond to those allegations. However, there is no indication that COVID-19 related 
delays prevented her from filing her motion in a timely fashion. A review of the record reflects that 
the Petitioner had obtained additional documentation to submit in support of her motion to reopen well 
before the due date of May 4, 2021. The Petitioner's statements on appeal do not demonstrate why 
she required several additional weeks to file the motion, beyond the extended deadline already 
provided by USCIS to provide additional flexibility during the pandemic. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not supported her claim that she was not afforded an opportunity to timely file a motion in response 
to the Director's adverse decision dated March 2, 2021. Further, the arguments submitted on appeal 
do not establish that the Petitioner's untimely filing of the motion to reopen was reasonable and beyond 
her control. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director's dismissed her combined 
motions in error or otherwise overcome the basis for the prior decision. 
II. CONCLUSION 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing of her motion was reasonable and beyond 
her control. The Petitioner provided no justification for the untimeliness of her combined motion at 
the time she filed it and therefore we cannot conclude that the Director erred by dismissing it. 
Although the Petitioner has provided an explanation for the untimely filing of the motion on appeal, 
that explanation, for the reasons discussed above, is not persuasive and does not warrant the 
withdrawal of the Director's decision. Accordingly, the appeal will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 29, 2023 In Re: 28423489 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a nuclear medicine physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if: they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and, their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).) 
The Petitioner is a nuclear medicine physician who seeks to continue his work in this field in the 
United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time achievement, he must submit evidence 
meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy five of the ten criteria and is otherwise eligible 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 
The Director denied the petition after concluding that Petitioner demonstrated that he met only two of 
the five claimed criteria: 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), performance in leading or critical roles for organization or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner claimed but did not submit sufficient evidence of 
published material about him and his work in professional publications or major media; evidence 
establishing that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field; and evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v) and (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the 
previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish that he satisfied these additional criteria. He 
also submits additional evidence in support of his claims. After reviewing the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria. 
To establish eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), a petitioner must show that 
they have commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field. In evaluating this criterion, USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has 
commanded" to mean that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration. 
Therefore, a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary or remuneration may establish 
that the person has been able to command such compensation. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on evaluation ofinitial evidence 
of extraordinary ability under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Evidence relevant to demonstrating an 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he could satisfy a sixth criterion, relating to his participation as a 
judge of the work of others in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
individual's high salary may include comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, 
such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Id. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided a copy of his fully-executed employment agreement with 
his current U.S. employer, a Florida professional corporation with radiology centers located 
throughout the state. The employment agreement indicates he was engaged to practice medicine in 
his specialty at an annual salary of $300,000, beginning in March 2021, with guaranteed annual 
increases that would provide him with a base salary of $320,000 by his third year in the position. A 
letter from the employer confirmed that he commenced his employment in the offered position in 
March 2021. Subsequent letters from the Petitioner's employer indicated that he had assumed the 
position of nuclear medicine department director within several months of being hired. The record 
also contains a copy of the Petitioner's IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2022, which 
appears to reflect his salary in the department director position. 
The Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion was largely based on a 
finding that the Petitioner did not submit position-appropriate comparative wage data for the position 
of "department director," but rather provided evidence limited to physician salaries. In doing so, the 
Director disregarded the employment agreement and relied solely on the Petitioner's documented 
salary from 2022. However, we observe that the employment agreement provides sufficient evidence 
of the salary the Petitioner "has commanded" as a nuclear medicine physician and therefore can be 
compared to the submitted salary data provided for this occupation, which is the occupation he intends 
to pursue in the United States. Upon de novo review of the comparative wage data the Petitioner 
provided, we conclude he established by a preponderance of the evidence that he has commanded a 
high salary in relation to others in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has met the requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the basis for the denial of his petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the initial 
evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility 
claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks or 
establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. On remand, the Director 
should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety, including the evidence submitted 
on appeal, to make a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF N-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: SEPT. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a research engineer working in the field of chemical engineering , seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that in addition to the two evidentiary 
criteria that the Director found he met, he meets an additional four criteria, and has sustained national 
or international acclaim. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofN-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a research engineer in the I lf"in=d=u=st=r~Y~- ~H=e~o=b=ta=in=e=d"" 
his Ph.D. in chemical engineering in 2013, focusing his research in the area ofl I 
.___ ______ __.I- .___ _____ ____. 
In his decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, those relating 
to his authorship of scholarly articles and his service as a judge of the work of others in his field. On 
appeal, he asserts that he also meets an additional four criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that he does not meet the initial evidence requirement of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner is a member of the I I and serves as one of six directors for the organiz .... a-t1-. o-n-' s_N_o_rt_h_e_rn_C_a_h __ f-orn_i_a-lo_c_a_l_s_e_ct_i_on__., 
which is its fifth largest in the world. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner submitted a letter froml lwho states that he is a Fellow withl I a membership 
level which he states "recognizes long-term excellence in both professional accomplishments and 
2 
Matter ofN-B-
service to the P.rofession." He also verifies the Petitioner's membership on the Executive Leadership 
Committee forl !Northern California section, and indicates that the general requirements for this 
position include nomination by a selection committee "which selects candidates based on background 
and expertise in chemical engineering and any volunteering experience," followed by an election by 
all members. I ~dds that candidates who will be symposium chairs, a role which the Petitioner 
has served in, "are required to have additional qualifications on being well-reputed among the 
academia and industry peers ... " On review, the letter indicates that nomination is based upon 
background and volunteering experience, not outstanding achievements, and that the final selection is 
made by vote of all of the members versus recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits thel !Northern California section's bylaws. Article III lists 
the four membership classes, but defers to the national or "home office" requirements for each class 
without further details. In addition, in explaining the nomination process for the executive committee, 
Article V indicates that "qualified" candidates should be selected, but does not explain what the 
qualifications for committee membership are, stating only that student members are not eligible. 
Therefore, neither the bylaws norl ~s letter establish that the Petitioner's membership on the I I Northern California section executive committee requires outstanding achievements or is 
judged by recognized national or international experts. This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he served as a chair for a one day sym osium presented by the 
Northern California cha ter co-chaired sessions at the 2016 and 2017 annual meetin s 
a meeting, and the 2017 .__ _________ _. 
~------------------~ and reviewed undergraduate and graduate students 
awards submissions. In addition, he served as a peer reviewer for three papers submitted to the Journal 
of Membrane Science, and reviewed a research proposal for the University ofl !Research 
Board. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this criterion has been met. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Director noted in his decision that the number of citations of the Petitioner's published research 
was far fewer than other researchers in the field, and compared it to the number of citations to the 
work o~ I who authored a reference letter submitted with this petition. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that this comparison does not takd ~ long career into account, and instead 
argues that the number of citations in his first six years as a researcher should be compared to the 
3 
Matter ofN-B-
Petitioner's. However, while the Petitioner's overall citation history is a relevant consideration in a 
final merits determination, neither comparison is particularly useful as an indicator of whether he has 
made original contributions of major significance to the field of chemical engineering as a whole. We 
note that the record does not include more relevant, contemporary comparative data to aid in the 
determination of whether the number of citations to the Petitioner's published research is indicative of 
impact or influence in the field. 
The Petitioner identifies as the most important of his ori inal contributions his research on the "V­
treatment" technique he developed for which was 
published in the ioumal Carbon and led to a granted patent. A reference letter from I I of the I I Institute of Technology I ~' under whose supervision the 
Petitioner worked during his graduate research, states that this technique increases the performance of I ~esulting in lower cost and environmental impact in 
commercial settings. 1 He also notes that his group at I I built upon the Petitioner's work, 
leading to a patent assigned to the United States Department of Energy on which the Petitioner is not 
named as an inventor. In a second letter submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), I I writes that his research group continues to pursue commercialization of the 
V-treatment process, with the expectation of successful field tests. While these letters demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's research has been important to~-----~s research group, they do not 
establish that it has already been of major significance to the overall area ofl I technology . 
.__ _______ __,I CTO atL..._ __ ___,..-----.........----____.,also submitted a reference letter, 
noting that he first met the Petitioner at also endorses the Petitioner's V-
treatment technique, writing that it "could help apply.__ _____ ~ on an industrial scale," and 
states that other companies, including his employer, "have leveraged [the Petitioner's] original work 
in their patent research." However, he does not provide specifics on how others have implemented 
the Petitioner's work, and like.__ _____ _, indicates that the industrial implementation of his 
invention is yet to occur. 
Another expert who writes about the Petitioner's V-treatment process isl He states 
in his letter that it "offers a solution to one of the field's major challenges," and that "the quality and 
number of citations the article has received in a short amount of time" shows the Carbon article's 
influence on the field. However, the record lacks supporting evidence of the quality of the citations, 
as well as comparative evidence showing that the rate of citation to this article is indicative of 
remarkable influence on other researchers in the field. 
The record also includes evidence of the four granted patents listing the Petitioner as an inventor, as 
well as six patent applications filed in 2018 that are currently pending. Two of the granted patents 
relate to the Petitioner's V-treatment process, discussed above . .__ _____ __, the Petitioner's 
technical supervisor with his current employer, describes his work on the company'~ I I I I project which led to another of the patents, and indicates that it "will be key on farther 
development of the I I technology." Although I Is letter shows that the 
Petitioner has had an influence on this and other research projects for his employer, it does not 
demonstrate that this work has already been of major significance to the overall field. 
1 While all of the reference letters in the record have been thoroughly reviewed, not all will be mentioned in this decision. 
4 
Matter ofN-B-
In summary, the evidence described above, as well as other evidence not specifically mentioned, 
shows that the Petitioner has made important contributions to I Is research group atl I 
C=1 as well as to his current employer. But it does not establish that his original contributions have 
been of major significance to the overall field of chemical engineering, or the more specialized area 
ofl I technology. Accordingly, this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes evidence which establishes that as of the date he filed his petition, the Petitioner 
had authored two scholarly articles which had been published in scientific journals, and has since 
authored an additional two published articles. As such, it establishes that he has met this criterion. 2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to qualify under this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. On the other hand, a critical role may 
be shown by evidence of a petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. A 
petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization 
or establishment as a whole. 
Here, the Petitioner focuses on his roles with L.._ __ .----________ ____J Research Group at 
I I as well as in his current position w · and points to reference letters 
describing his role in each of those organizations. ~--~ writes in his reference letter that as a 
Ph.D. candidate in his group, the Petitioner developed the V-treatment procedure which significantly 
improves the performance I land allows them to be scaled up for commercial use. He 
notes that this research contribution "chan ed the direction of our future studies in the advancement 
and commercialization of technology," and concludes that the Petitioner "blazed a 
path for my group at~----~' In a second letter, I I expands upon this, stating that 
roughly 60% of the work now conducted by his research group "follow along the path that [the 
Petitioner] has opened up with his research." However, we note that these letters indicate that the 
criticality of the Petitioner's work did not become evident until after his departure, and do not establish 
that his role as a graduate student researcher was critical while he was a member of the group. 
In addition, even if the evidence were to establish that the Petitioner played a critical role forD I Is research group, it does not demonstrate that the research group has a distinguished re:utation. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the graduate chemical engineering department atl ~ I 
was ranked sixth (tied with at least four other departments) by US. News & World Report, butD I ldoes not claim in his letters that the Petitioner's ro)e was critical for the overall department. 
Further, while I Is biography listed inl ~ faculty directory webpage indicates that 
2 We note that while the Petitioner's curriculum vitae indicated that he had also authored several abstracts which had been 
presented at scientific conferences, the record does not include evidence to show that the abstracts were published. 
5 
Matter ofN-B-
his group "is a leader" in the field, this statement is not corroborated with independent documentary 
evidence of the group's reputation. 
Regarding the Petitioner's current role with I I he references two letters from current and 
former colleagues. I I who co-authored a patent application with the Petitioner, also 
notes that they collaborated on two conference presentations which "demonstrated I ts 
proprietary I I technology before the international I I community and were crucial to 
garnering the interest of potential develo ers." While I !concludes that the 
Petitioner "has served in a critical capacity for " he does not ex lain the impact of the patent 
or the presentations in terms of their effect on .__ ___________ ~overall operations, 
finances or research. 
The second letter regarding the Petitioner's critical role with his current employer was written bv□ I I He states that the Petitioner was the technical lead on I . :r I 
.__ ____________________ ____,research projects. The Petitioner's role in 
spearheading the experimental design and commercialization of the~ project led to a patent 
application and further funding for its development, and I I states that the I I "is 
expected to increase revenue by $30-$40 million/year." He also writes that the Petitioner was "a key 
contributor to the I I project," and was the project manager for a water desalination 
project. I I concludes by noting that the Petitioner has received over a dozen internal 
performance award~ for this an~ other contributions to I Is research and development 
programs. As withl._ ____ _.j letter, however, this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has 
made contributions to his employer through several research projects, but does not establish this work 
made a critiCa.LlDllllli~ on its overall operations. Further, while the record includes evidence which 
indicates that is the.__ _________ _,company in the United States, the evidence 
regarding it ,.._ ____ __, subsidiary does not establish that it enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the reasons given above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration/or services, in relation to others in thefield. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(H)(3)(ix) 
As evidence of his salary, the Petitioner submitted his 2016 and 2017 IRS Form W-2s, which show 
that he earned approximately $107,000 and $112,000 in those years, respectively. In addition, a letter 
from his current employer states that his base salary for 2018 was $122,000. In support of the level 
of his salary in relation to others in his field, he submitted two salary reports from the website of the 
Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Data Center, which shows the salaries for chemical euo:iueers iu 
the I I California metropolitan area for 2017 and 2018. He also submitted the I I 
Global Salary Guide from recruiting company Hays for 2016. The Director concluded that this 
evidence does not show that the Petitioner "is among the highest paid research engineers in the United 
States." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director applied an incorrect evidentiary standard, as the 
language does not require that the Petitioner's salary be among the highest, but that it be relatively 
high. We agree. However, we do not agree with the Petitioner's interpretation of the FLC data. On 
6 
Matter ofN-B-
appeal, he asserts that since this was his first job since obtaining his Ph.D. in 2013, his wage should 
be compared to that of entry level chemical engineers at the level 1 wage. As noted on the salary data 
reports in the record, qualifying education and training for the referenced position consists of a 
bachelor's degree. The Petitioner's doctorate degree places him well above these minimum 
qualifications, and well above the trainee or intern level appropriate for a level 1 wage. 3 At the more 
applicable level 3 wage, which includes positions requiring "years of experience or educational 
degrees that are at the higher ranges,"4 the evidence shows that the Petitioner's salary for 2016 and 
2017 was below average, and only slightly above average for 2018. 
In addition, we do not find that the Hays report includes data which is sufficient to form a basis for 
comparison to the Petitioner's salary. Specifically, none of the job titles included appear to be research 
positions, nor is there any description of the duties of these positions, and the data does not account 
for local variations in salary. Accordingly, after comparison of the Petitioner's salary with the relevant 
data in the record, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of sustained acclaim and standing in his field required for the 
classification sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
3 See Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance at 6 for a detailed explanation of the four skill levels, accessed on 
the FLC Data Center website at https://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC _Guidance_ Revised_ 11 _ 2009 .pdf 
4 Id. 
7 
Matter ofN-B-
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of N-B-, ID# 4420324 (AAO Sept. 30, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10994686 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a printing engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. We will 
also withdraw the finding of willful misrepresentation. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as "an expe1ion flexographic technology" with "extraordinary ability 
in the field of printing engineering." Flexography is a method of printing involving flexible printing 
plates mounted on high-speed rotors, for printing on various porous and non-orous substrates. 
Materials in the record refer to her as the founder and chieftechnolo officer of technology officer of ___________ and as general manager of If she 
is able to immigrate to the United States, she intends to establish a "Flexography Lab" in the I I area." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the regulatory criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets four criteria, pertaining to published material about her; original 
contributions; authorship of scholarly articles; and a leading or critical role. The Petitioner does not 
contest the Director's conclusions regarding judging and remuneration, and therefore we consider 
those issues to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) through an article about her, 
pertaining to her work, in Peninsula City News. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted translated copies of six articles. One of these articles, published in China 
Strategic Emerging Industry, is credited to an author other than the Petitioner. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested circulation data, to show that the publications 
meet the regulatory requirements. Evidence of such material should establish that the circulation 
( online or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and who the intended audience of 
the publication is. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In response, the Petitioner stated that she had submitted "evidence to prove the journals are major." 
But the evidence in question simply described the publications, without providing circulation data as 
requested and required. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
establish the existence of the claimed articles. We will discuss this issue further below, in the context 
of the Director's finding of willful misrepresentation. Here, it will suffice to say that the Director 
appears to have relied on incomplete information. 
But the Petitioner has not adequately addressed the Director's concern, stated previously, that the 
Petitioner had not shown that her articles appeared in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. For this reason, we agree with the Director's core conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the requirements of the criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner indicated that the scholarly articles in the record include qualifying contributions. 
Those articles do not inherently show the significance of the contributions they describe. A petitioner 
can establish the major significance of published scholarly work by showing that it has "provoked 
widespread commentary," received notice from others working in the field, or been cited frequently 
by other scholars as authoritative in the field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Here, 
the Petitioner has not submitted such evidence. 
The Petitioner claimed to be "listed by name as the inventor on four ... patents," but her name is only 
on two of the four submitted patent certificates. As with her articles, her patents are evidence of 
original contributions, but the patents themselves do not contain evidence of their own significance. 
The Petitioner must show not only that her contributions exist, but also how those contributions affect 
the field at a level demonstrating major significance. 
The Petitioner is one of two named inventors of a 
I I She asserted that this patent "has won wide industry praise and attention from foreign 
markets." The Petitioner also stated that her "academic articles introduced many advanced 
3 
technologies in the industry," and that she set technical standards at ___ which "gradually 
became the current industry standard ... widely used in the industry." 
To support these assertions, the Petitioner submitted letters from the co-inventor of the device, the 
chief executive officer ofl I and the executive director of I The letters identify 
contributions such as improvements in printing efficiency and reliability, and indicate that 7 
was the first company to exportl Ito Europe and the United States. The letters also 
indicate that the Petitioner's work addressed technical challenges of flexographic printing on 
I I 
The statements of individuals so close to the Petitioner, without further corroboration, cannot be 
presumed to represent a broader consensus in the field. The Petitioner did not submit objective 
evidence to document adoption of her methods or inventions throughout the industry, or to show that 
her contributions have advanced the field overall, as opposed to her companies' commercial interests. 
The Petitioner stated that her companies' products meet the standards of the Forest Stewardship 
Council and comply with European Union timber regulations. These regulations and industry 
standards are already in place; compliance does not amount to an original contribution. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence to show how the Petitioner's contributions "impacted the 
field in a major and significant way." In response, the Petitioner repeated information from the initial 
submission and submitted new documentation showing that she drafted! "Enterprise 
Standards" for in 2006. Two other a er com anies in China later 
published similar standards - in 2011 and 
in 2012. The Petitioner asserts that the similarities demonstrate 
the influence of the standards she developed. We note that the 2011 standards were drafted by the 
individual named as co-inventor on the Petitioner's two patents. The 2012 standards do not identify 
their author. The documentation submitted does not establish the major significance of these 
standards. Also, nothing in the documents themselves establishes thatl I standards were 
largely or entirely original, rather than based on earlier work. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown how her contributions have 
major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
[W]e have provided sufficient evidence such as [the Petitioner's] patents, publications, 
and testimonials from professionals in the field. All the evidence indicate[s that the 
Petitioner] is a leader in the field of her endeavor and has set the standard for the 
industry. The [Director] failed to consider and did not even mention any of [the 
Petitioner's] achievement[s]. 
Since we have provided plenty of evidence and the examiner did not object, the 
[Petitioner] has satisfied the criterion. 
4 
The Director, however, did not disregard the Petitioner's evidence as asserted. The Director discussed 
the Petitioner's work, stating: "two other companies [are] using the same standards the petitioner 
drafted, but the petitioner did not demonstrate how these three companies using these standards 
impacted her field as a whole." 
The Petitioner has not overcome the Director's conclusions regarding this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the one remaining claimed criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), pertaining to the Petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 2 
The Petitioner has not met at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, 
the petition cannot be approved, and we need not proceed to a final merits determination. 
Nevertheless, another issue remains to be discussed. 
B. Willful Misrepresentation of a Material Fact 
The Director made a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner, 
having determined that the Petitioner had submitted false evidence relating to the scholarly articles 
submitted in support of the petition. 
A misrepresentation is an assertion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a material misrepresentation requires that the 
foreign national willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of 
obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N 
Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully"means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief thatthe facts are otherwise. See Matter of Healy 
and Goodchild, 17 I&NDec.22,28 (BIA 1979). To be consideredmaterial, themisrepresentationmust 
be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which 
might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 
536,537(BIA 1980). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits 
evidence which contains false information. In general, a few errors or minor discrepancies are not 
reason to question the credibility of a foreign national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. 
See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. U.S., 345 F.3d 683,694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes 
serious errors and discrepancies, and the petitioner does not resolve those errors and discrepancies 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
given the opportunity to rebut or explain, then the inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that 
the claims stated in the petition are not true. See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582,591 (BIA 1988). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation, under section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § ll 82(a)(6)(C). 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See MatterofM-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter ofL-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 196I);KaiHing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
In this case, the Director determined that Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles is directly 
relevant to an eligibility criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and therefore any misrepresentation 
regarding such articles would be material to the petition. While the Director has raised questions in 
this regard, we conclude that the Director has not adequately justified this finding. 
Most of the discussion of the Petitioner's alleged misrepresentation concerns an article which, 
according to the Petitioner, appeared in issue of Modern Business Trade Industry, in I 
2019. The journal's cover identifies the publication's website as http://www.xdsmgy.cn. 
In the RFE, issued December 3, 2019, the Director stated: "the evidence is not credible. The website 
for the journal Modern Business Trade Industry shows the latest issue for this magazine was number D but the petitioner is claiming her article was featured in issue numb er The Director did not 
identify a specific web page containing this information. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a web printout showingOnumbered issues of Modern Business 
Trade Industry from 2019, and another printout showing abstracts of several claimed articles, 
including the Petitioner's article, from issue D The Petitioner stated that these materials came from 
"the website page of the National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI)" and "the official website." 
In the denial notice, the Director did not address these printouts. Instead, the Director stated that, 
according to the website named on the magazine cover, "issue number does not exist, because this 
journal has been printing semi-monthly since 2008. . . . [T]he issues for were I 
and there were only issues total for the year." 
Also, the decision included new allegations not found in the RFE, based on derogatory information 
from outside the record of proceeding. The Director did not give the Petitioner an opportunity to rebut 
this information prior to the decision, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits photographs, with translations, of what appear to be the print edition 
of Modern Business Trade Industry, showing information translated as indicating that the magazine is 
published "every ten days." 
6 
Because the Director acknowledged consulting the journal's website, we visited that site as well. 
While the home page does refer to the publication as "bimonthly," it also shows a link to CNKI. 
Information found at that linked site confirms that there were issues of Modern Business Trade 
Industry in 2019, and that the Petitioner's article appeared in issue03 Between this online 
information and the photographs submitted by the Petitioner, the preponderance of the evidence 
supports the conclusion that the article exists, credited to the Petitioner. 
Apart from the article discussed above, the Director also stated: 
A search of several websites was conducted, including Oripribe and CKNI, and they 
did not reveal any magazine for the ISSN number listed on the cover of Science Guide. 
In addition, in regards [sic] to the other four articles the petitioner claimed she authored, 
the websites Oripribe or CKNI did not reveal the issues in which the petitioner claimed 
her articles were published. 
The Director did not provide specific web addresses that would have allowed us to repeat the searches. 
It is also unclear that either of the named sources are complete and comprehensive databases. This is 
significant because if a database is complete, then the absence of a claimed publication from that 
database would serve as evidence that the claimed publication does not exist. But if the database, 
however large, has gaps, then the absence of a claimed publication would serve only as a lack of 
corroboration. 
Also, as above, this information was not in the RFE, and therefore the Petitioner did not have the 
opportunity to respond to this information before the denial was issued, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(l 6)(i). 
We withdraw the finding that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts relating to her 
claimed publication record. There are ambiguities and deficiencies in the record, but upon 
consideration of the evidence submitted by the Petitioner there is not a sufficient basis for a finding of 
willful misrepresentation of a material fact with respect to her scholarly a1iicles. 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained nor or international acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. 
3 See https: (visited September I, 2022). 
4 Because the Director based the finding of willful misrepresentation solely on the information relating to the Petitioner's 
published articles, our contrary finding is, likewise, limited to such evidence. We take no position regarding other 
information that may exist outside the record of proceeding. 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrnte 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record indicates that 
the Petitioner has had success in the printing industry, and has expanded her business by overcoming 
technical obstacles. But the record does not show that she has earned recognition beyond! ] 
and I I in Southeast China and sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 30, 2024 In Re: 33565037 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a periodontist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the statutory and regulatory definition of extraordinary ability. The 
matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either demonstrate a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide documentation 
that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items 
such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Here, the Director concluded that the Petitioner meets three of the initial criteria: 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)(iv) (judging the work of others), (v) (authorship of scholarly articles), and (ix) (high 
salary), which the record supports. In the final merits determination, however, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner had not demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim in the field of 
periodontics or shown that she is one of that small percentage at the very top of that field, and denied 
the petition accordingly. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief contending that the Director did not 
consider the record as a whole and ignored the Petitioner's more recent accomplishments. Upon 
review, we conclude that the record does not establish sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner contends that in pointing out that most of her scholarly publication history and 
supporting evidence dated from 2015 to 2018, the Director failed to consider the totality of the record, 
which includes a scholarly article from 2023, as well as the fact that all of the petition support letters 
date from that year. We disagree. The Director did not ignore the Petitioner's most recent work, but 
correctly pointed out that nearly all of the Petitioner's scholarly production and acclaim occurred 
several years before the petition was filed. The statutory definition of extraordinary ability requires a 
person's acclaim to be sustained. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. See also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) 
(stating that petitioners must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing and 
continue to be eligible through adjudication). Contrary to the Petitioner's claims, the fact that she 
published her first article in 2015 and her last one in 2023 does not, in and of itself: establish that she 
sustained any level of acclaim for that entire period, and the remainder of the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence to establish that this is the case. 
The fact that the Petitioner's support letters were written in 2023 also does not indicate that her acclaim 
has lasted through any particular timeframe. The support letters were all written by the Petitioner's 
coworkers, collaborators, and teachers, and they comprise nearly all of the evidence of the Petitioner's 
acclaim. It is generally expected that a researcher at the top of their field would gamer acclaim over 
a sustained period from outside their immediate professional and personal circles, and that they would 
be able to provide evidence ofthat acclaim in forms other than letters, such as awards, media coverage, 
patents, and citation figures. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(3), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual ("Letters of support, while not without weight, should not form 
the cornerstone of a successful claim for this classification. . . [ and] should be corroborated by 
documentary evidence in the record"). The Petitioner has not provided such corroboration here. 
For example, several ofthe support letters cite the Petitioner's doctoral research on the I protein 
as a highlight of her career and state that it received a great deal of acclaim, was widely cited, and 
provided groundwork for future studies on in vitro enamel growth and amelogenesis imperfecta. But 
beyond some contemporaneous coverage of the research in professional publications, the record does 
not include documentation of this research's acclaim. Nor does it show that the I I research was 
2 
widely adopted or otherwise so influential in the field of periodontics that it would place the Petitioner 
at the very top ofher field. Instead, much of the provided citation evidence consists of the Petitioner's 
co-authors self-citing as they develop their research, as well as review articles which provide a broad 
overview of developments in the field. Furthermore, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner's co­
authors have substantially more citations than her, which does not indicate that she is at the top of her 
field. The Petitioner does not address this issue on appeal. 
It is not apparent from the evidence provided that the Petitioner is one of that small percentage at the 
very top of her field or that she has sustained a national or international level of acclaim over time. 
The two media articles about the I I protein research mention the Petitioner as one of the 
contributing researchers, but these articles are from eight years before the time of filing and do not 
establish that her research work has sustained that level of interest from others in her field over time. 
The fact that the Petitioner was a finalist in a 2021 research forum poster competition is notable, but 
given the much more extensive publication histories and honors of the coworkers who wrote her 
recommendation letters, the record does not establish that this constitutes a level of acclaim 
commensurate with being part of that small percentage at the very top of her field. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided evidence that she performed peer review duties for two academic journals in 2023, 
but did not provide any evidence indicating that these journals are especially prestigious. In this 
context, the Petitioner's high salary as a practicing periodontist is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's 
burden of proof and establish her eligibility. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376 (stating that 
the "preponderance of the evidence" standard requires us to examine each piece of evidence for 
relevance and probative value both individually and in the context of the totality of the evidence to 
determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true). 
The totality of the record indicates that the Petitioner conducted promising research as a graduate 
student, and that she has resumed doing so in the last few years while also working as a periodontist. 
However, it does not indicate that she has received acclaim for this work on a national or international 
level over a sustained period of time. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Nor does the record include 
extensive documentation showing that she has risen to the very top of her field. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The petition will therefore remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 30, 2024 In Re: 33948048 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a researcher who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a cancer researcher specializing in molecular cancer biology and cancer metabolism. 
He earned his foreign Ph.D. in 2017 and when he filed the petition, he was serving as a postdoctoral 
fellow at a U.S. academic medical center. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to 
judging and authorship ofscholarly articles, but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original 
contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to contributions. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we will not disturb 
the Director's decision relating to the criteria they granted. And we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has not fulfilled the contributions of major significance requirements. 
Before we evaluate the regulatory requirements, we address an issue the Petitioner alleges in the appeal 
brief: that the Director abused their discretion through various methods in the denial decision. The 
Petitioner made this allegation four times in the appeal brief and in one instance cited to the USCIS 
Policy Manual indicating it "prohibits the arbitrary exercise of discretion, as well as consistent 
rationale and reliance on biases or assumptions." In doing so, the Petitioner cited "l USCIS-PM 
E.9(B)(3)." That policy guidance relates to discretionary denials, but this petition did not include the 
Director's discretion. 
Even setting that aside, it does not appear this allegation is even within our jurisdiction or authority to 
decide, which is established through DHS Delegation No. 0150.1 para. (2)(U) (Mar. 1, 2003) 
(delegating appellate authority over those case types listed at 8 C.F.R. § 103.l(f)(3)(iii) (2003)). As 
we state above, the standard of review we use in these administrative proceedings is de novo and we 
generally do not rule on an abuse of discretion standard. 1 
1 This is not to say that within our de novo review and within appeals that do include discretion as an element, we avoid 
evaluating a denial decision's discretionary elements. We review questions of law, policy, fact, and discretion on a de 
novo basis. Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. at 537 n.2; Matter ofSimeio Solutions, LLC, 26 I&N Dec. 542, 542 n.l (AAO 
2015). 
2 
Abuse of discretion is a standard of review appellate courts use to review lower court decisions and is 
not applicable in these proceedings. Relating to administrative law, 5 U.S. Code § 706(2)(a) governs 
the abuse of discretion concept. That statute states that when a federal court is reviewing an 
administrative agency's decision, the court will set it aside when the decision was either "arbitrary, 
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law." But as one can see, this 
too relates to how federal courts review an administrative agency's decision and falls outside of this 
office's authority. Based on a lack ofjurisdiction on this topic, we will not consider these claims any 
further. 2 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 586 U.S. 392,415 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion discussing 
his publication record, his citation record, and recommendation letters. On appeal the Petitioner raises 
several issues. 
We begin with the Petitioner's questions relating to the preponderance of the evidence, as he alleges 
the Director did not properly apply the relevant portion of the Chawathe decision that states "the 
director must examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. It appears where the Petitioner slightly 
diverts from Chawathe 's findings is when he changes the text from "probative value" to "probative 
nature." And in doing so, he diverts focus from how persuasive the relevant evidence should be, to its 
inherent quality or character. We consider the Petitioner's focus on "probative nature" to already be 
encompassed within Chawathe 's findings relating to the evidence's "credibility." 
2 We are also not persuaded by the Petitioner's attempts to distinguish his case from the situation in Matter ofKatigbak, 
14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). As a result, we do not agree that the Director misapplied that precedential 
decision. Ultimately, a petitioner must establish eligibility at the time they file the visa petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ), 
(12). USCIS may not approve a visa petition if the filing party was not qualified at the priority date but expects to become 
eligible at a subsequent time. See Matter of Izummi, 22 l&N Dec. 169, 175-76 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Katigbak, 14 l&N 
at 49. 
3 
Setting that technicality aside, we reviewed the Director's analysis and we do not identify any 
indication that they increased the standard, not even implicitly, by demanding more conclusive 
evidence than the regulation calls for. Ultimately, the Director stated: 
Although the authors of the submitted letters state that other researchers relied on the 
[petitioner's] research, the petitioner did not submit objective, documentary evidence 
to support their statements. Letters of recommendation written by experts may be 
helpful, but the major significance of the [petitioner's] work must be demonstrated by 
preexisting, independent, and objective evidence. Letters of support alone generally 
may not be sufficient to meet this criterion. Letters, though not without weight, cannot 
form the cornerstone of a successful extraordinary ability claim. USCIS may, in its 
discretion, use such letters as advisory opinions submitted by expert witnesses. 
However, USCTS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination of the 
alien's eligibility. See Matter ofCaron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm. 
1988). 
Still on the preponderance topic, in the appeal, the Petitioner discusses support letters he submitted, 
and he takes issue with the Director requiring other independent evidence outside of the letters. But 
satisfying the contributions of major significance is arguably one of the most challenging regulations 
to meet among all the employment-based requirements. And the Director's analysis conveyed this 
aspect without misapplying the standard of proof. 
How much of a showing is sufficient to establish eligibility by a preponderance of the 
evidence will often tum upon the factual circumstances of each case. There are no 
magic words or mathematical formulas that can describe a preponderance of the 
evidence so it can be applied mechanically in every case . . . . But, when something is 
to be established by a preponderance of the evidence it is sufficient that the proof only 
establish that it is probably trne. 
Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (BIA 1989). The Director did not commit error here when 
they sought additional probative material to corroborate the contribution of major significant 
assertions within the letters (i.e., to establish the claims within the letters was probably true). 
Next in the appeal brief, the Petitioner continues down this road discussing the letters; this time those 
offered in the request for evidence (RFE) response. Within the appeal brief he states: 
And yet another example, the Decision stated that we failed to "submit evidence which 
demonstrates how the [petitioner's] work was more heavily relied upon in their works" 
and we did not "provide any supporting evidence to show that the [petitioner's] 
contributions were cited as original contributions of major significance in the field"[]. 
These conclusions are plainly contradicted by the letters ofrecommendation submitted 
in the RFE Response, which both report how the authors of these letters and their 
researchers relied "more heavily" upon [the petitioner's] research and consider his 
work to be original contributions of major significance to the field .... 
4 
The Petitioner generally points to the letters in the RFE response without specifying which letters or 
what portions of them corroborate his assertions. Before we discuss any of those letters, we put the 
Director's statements in full context, which it does not appear that the Petitioner conveyed in the above 
quote from his appeal brief. The Director stated: 
The record contains articles and Google Scholar profiles from other researchers who 
cited the [petitioner's] work, and counsel asserts that this serves as objective, 
documentary evidence that the [petitioner's] work has provoked widespread public 
commentary in the field or has been widely cited. While it is evident that other 
researchers cited the [petitioner's] work, the petitioner did not submit evidence which 
demonstrates how the [petitioner's] work was more heavily relied upon in their works 
as his work is among dozens and hundreds ofother cited sources comprised ofhundreds 
of other researchers. Such citations are generally representative of the collaborative 
process of scientific research, and the petitioner did not provide any supporting 
evidence to show that the [petitioner's] contributions were cited as original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner's appeal brief is unresponsive to the Director's allegation that he did not submit 
evidence demonstrating how his work was more heavily relied upon in the letter author's works, as 
his work was among a large amount of other cited sources. 
Because the Petitioner failed to specify what letters to consider and why any aid in demonstrating he 
has fulfilled this criterion, we will select a sample of the letters. In Dr. I I letter, he 
discussed the Petitioner's work and noted how other researchers relied on his rior findin s. One such 
instance he mentions was m a paper titled 
__ in which Dr. Istated these researchers relied on the Petitioner's work "as a 
foundational framework to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti tumor activity ofthe 
natural compound shikonin, specifically focusing on its inhibition of PKM2." 
While we agree this paper cites to the Petitioner's work, it does not appear to be a "foundational" 
reliance nor does it seem to showcase the significance of his research to novel findings and progress 
in the field as Dr. asserts. Instead, the authors stated one finding from the Petitioner's published 
work, then explained their method of exploring the mechanisms underlying the effect of shikonin on 
mitochondria. The Petitioner's cited paper did not study how shikonin impacted cellular function. 
In all, this paper used a single sentence to cite to the Petitioner's study, and he was cited one time 
among 40 other published works. The Petitioner did not explain how those results support his claim 
that "the authors of these letters and their researchers relied "more heavily" upon [ the Petitioner's] 
research and consider his work to be original contributions of major significance to the field." 
Additionally, neither Dr. I Inor the Petitioner explain how his findings helped to significantly 
advance these authors' work in the field. Even when others have adopted a claimed contribution to 
the industry, but those efforts have not borne a result that has significantly impacted the field, that 
cannot be the type and level ofcontribution that might satisfy this criterion's demanding requirements. 
Amin, 24 F.4th at 393-94. 
5 
We now move to the Petitioner's claim that the Director presented false information because they 
"reject[ed] these letters because they 'repeat the regulatory language' but did not otherwise explain 
how [the Petitioner's] contributions 'have already influence the field' []. It is immediately clear from 
these letters that they do not contain regulatory language and they clearly describe how [the 
Petitioner's] contributions have influenced the field." Here, the Petitioner identifies two letters within 
the initial filing that he states described how his contributions have had an influence on the field at a 
level sufficient to satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
The first letter is from Professor from the ______________ 
The professor described the Petitioner's work as highly beneficial and novel and he offered some 
examples to support his statements. But the act of simply furthering the field's understanding relating 
to cancer growth does not amount to a contribution of major significance. Nor does producing new 
information about manipulating elements when treating cancer, unless the professor is able to identify 
how that new information moved the field forward in some measurable or discemable way. 
The developments Professor! Idescribed appear to be developments that might aid in the field's 
understanding, but at this stage it does not appear this progress has already and adequately pushed the 
field forward. ProfessorI ldoes not state that the Petitioner is the researcher who discovered any 
of the research findings he discusses in his letter, and it appears that most of his dialogue relates to 
preexisting information the Petitioner has confirmed through his own work. 
While the professor's letter stated that the Petitioner's work provided important insights, he does not 
specifically address how the Petitioner's original work has made an impact in the field at large. His 
comments tend to indicate that the Petitioner has made incremental progress to the common repository 
of knowledge. We might analogize this to someone adding pieces to a scaffold-poles, planks, 
braces-but until enough are assembled, those parts don't form a new section of platform. Each piece 
is essential, but without completing the necessary components, it remains in an unfinished stage and 
not a full, usable section. Even though the Petitioner has added some parts to this conceptual 
scaffolding, his contributions have not yet been adequate to form a new platform for the field to stand 
upon. And that falls short of this criterion's demands. 
Professor authored the second letter from the initial filing. He is an assistant 
professor ofmedicine at _______ and a physician at the I 
The professor met the Petitioner one time at a recent conference but primarily is familiar with him 
through his work. Professor! Istated the Petitioner's influence on the field is indicated by 
his inclusion in a wide range ofprominent scientific journals, all ofwhich assess the submitted works' 
quality and value before accepting them. 
While publishing in prestigious journals might suggest the Petitioner's research is valuable, it does not 
necessarily mean that his valued research has significantly contributed to the field as a whole. 
Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were 
of major significance. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (reflecting that evidence that the person's work was published, 
while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish that the work is 
of major significance to the field). 
6 I 
I The professor continued describing one of the Petitioner's studies relating to trans location renal cell 
carcinoma and he concluded that "[t]he findings of this study were significant." Professor 
Iindicated the Petitioner's work in this area "notably advanced treatment strategies for a 
cancer for which viable treatments are currently limited, and it contributed greatly to the study of 
chromosomal translocations and their relationship to tumor development." But the professor did not 
describe how the Petitioner's research made such advancements, nor did he describe how those 
advancements have already made an impact within the field. 
He also noted other ways in which the Petitioner's research has added to the field's knowledge and 
stated this foreign national's observations created pathways to better outcomes and strategies for 
evading cancer treatment resistance. Again, what is absent from the professor's portrayal is specifics 
on how they have affected the field: what those better outcomes and strategies are, how prominently 
they are being implemented in the field, and what has resulted from their implementation. In the end 
it appears that Professor! lviews the Petitioner's overall research findings to have impacted 
the field without offering adequate specifics that might demonstrate he has satisfied this criterion's 
requirements. After reviewing the letters the Petitioner presents as demonstrating his eligibility under 
this criterion on appeal, we do not agree with his contention that they are adequate. 
Next, the Petitioner claims USCIS failed to issue clear findings of fact and he alleges "the Decision 
failed to observe the basic guidelines presented in the USCIS Policy Manual that govern the 
consideration of original contributions of major significance." The Petitioner describes that process 
as first determining whether a foreign national has made original contributions, then whether those are 
of major significance to the field. It appears the Petitioner alleges the Director's decision contains 
frippery rather than the most basic elements outlined in the USCIS Policy Manual. It further appears 
the Petitioner expects a strict presentation in which the Director separates out their discussion limiting 
one portion of the analysis to originality and another portion to whether the contributions were of 
major significance. 
Despite the Petitioner's contention that the Director "failed to issue clear findings on either matter," 
reviewing the denial decision reveals they acknowledged that the Petitioner's work was original. And 
when discussing his citation record, letters, and the extent to which other researchers have relied on 
his work, the Director repeatedly decided the evidence did not demonstrate the Petitioner had already 
made contributions to his field that were of major significance. 
Also, the Petitioner expresses disagreement relating to what his evidence demonstrated and whether 
he offered evidence to establish that the amount of citations to his published work is indicative of 
major significance to the field. The Director stated the Petitioner "did not submit evidence to 
demonstrate that the amount of citations is indicative of major significance," then discussed the 
material he supplied from Clarivate Analytics relating to baseline citation rates. The Director then 
decided the Petitioner did not submit adequate evidence to make a showing that his citation rates and 
percentiles place him among the top in his field for the relevant publication years. 
Regarding the Petitioner's citation record, he points to the evidence showing his record ranks among 
the top ten percent of the most cited articles in Biology & Biochemistry in the respective publication 
years, and one paper in the top one percent for that same category. Before the Director, the Petitioner 
provided his Google Scholar profile, a chart from Clarivate Analytics InCites Essential Science 
7 
Indicators reflecting the baseline citation rates for various research fields between 2013 and 2023, and 
OpenAlex citation percentiles with cancer designated as the area of research. 
The Petitioner's appeal does not explain why he selected the Biology & Biochemistry research field 
in Clarivate Analytics rather than Oncology or Molecular Biology & Genetics, which corresponds 
with a higher citation rate. The documentation supporting the Clarivate Analytics evidence indicated 
that"[a] citation rate is the average number ofcitations received by a group ofpapers published in one 
research field in a given year." The issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field rather than where his citation rates rank among the 
average. A more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to 
other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well 
as factoring in other corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that 
his articles at the time of filing, using InCites Essential Science Indicators methodology through 
citation numbers and percentiles, resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. 3 
The Petitioner's final claim regarding citations relates to content in the USCIS Policy Manual. The 
Petitioner contends the policy reflects his claims and evidence are adequate to fulfill this criterion's 
requirements. However, we do not agree with the Petitioner that the USCIS Policy Manual states a 
high citation record is enough. Agency policy also requires a significant reaction to the published 
work throughout the field when it states: 
Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes 
major, significant contributions to the field. 
For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its 
importance from others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly 
cited relative to others' work in that field, may be probative of the significance of the 
person's contributions to the field of endeavor. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l). So, agency policy does not reflect what the 
Petitioner alleges, because a foreign national must also show how potentially influential research has 
generated substantial discussion among peers in the field. For instance, that could mean more than 
citations and might include invitations to serve as a keynote speaker or to participate on panels at 
major conferences, media coverage, etc. 
In general, comparing the Petitioner's cumulative citations to those of others in the field in an attempt 
to draw a conclusion of his comparative impact in the field, is often more appropriate within a final 
merits determination after he has satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. Such a comparison may 
assist in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. However, 
3 The Petitioner's documentation from Clarivate Analytics reflects that "[c]itation frequency is highly skewed, with many 
infrequently cited papers and relatively few highly cited papers. Consequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as 
representing the central tendency of the distribution." Stated differently, the Petitioner did not sufficiently show the 
reliability of these figures. 
8 
the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this criterion in order 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). See also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
And finally, the Petitioner notes the Director did not discuss his fiscal year 2021 Department of 
Defense funding grant. We acknowledge the two-level process ofreview associated with this funding 
grant in which they received 67 compliant applications and recommended 10 of those for funding. 
This monetary grant simply fund 10 scientist's work. 
Every successful scientist who engages in research, receives this or another form of funding where 
their past achievements are a factor in grant proposals. The funding institution has to be assured that 
the investigator is capable of performing the proposed research. But to the point, a research funding 
grant is principally designed to fund future research, and not to honor or recognize past contributions 
of major significance in a given field. In fact, the Petitioner does not identify any evidence that 
establishes this funding grant was issued due to his major contributions to the field. While such 
funding is notable, it does not establish that the grant was prima facie evidence that the awardees have 
made contributions of major significance in their respective fields. Agency policy further speaks to the 
issue of funding: 
Evidence that the person's work was funded, patented, or published, while potentially 
demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the 
work is of major significance to the field. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's 
original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance 
in the field." ( emphasis added). We recognize the Petitioner's original contributions to his field, some 
of which have exerted some level of impact. But without additional, specific evidence showing that 
the Petitioner's work has been unusually influential, widely applied by the field, or has otherwise risen 
to the level of contributions of major significance, he cannot establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
9 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 30, 2024 In Re: 33947960 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fitness trainer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a fitness trainer and amateur bodybuilder. He is currently employed in the United 
States as a fitness trainer, and intends to open his own fitness center. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner renews his claim to meet six of the criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he has not established that he meets the 
initial evidentiary requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have received prizes or awards which were 
granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in their field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner submitted several certificates, two of which recognize his second place finish in a 
regional student bodybuilding competition in 2010. An additional two certificates relate to 
presentations he gave at conferences while a student at 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that any of these awards were 
nationally or internationally recognized in his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner restates much of his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), 
and does not identify any errors in the Director's decision regarding this criterion. The Petitioner 
2 
appears to primarily rely upon the reputation ofl Ito demonstrate the national recognition of the 
latter two certificates, but the evidence does not indicate that the recognition of these awards extended 
beyond that institution. Notably, an article about the winners of I "68th final scientific 
conference" which lists the Petitioner as a third place winner in the "humanities in medicine" category 
was posted on the institution's website. We also note that none of the four certificates mentioned 
above, or the two "gratitude letters" from I I and a local mayor, recognize the Petitioner for his 
performance or achievements as a fitness trainer, his field of endeavor. 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field of fitness training, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner asserts that his development of a fitness training methodology constitutes an original 
athletic contribution of major significance, and that this is shown by the numerous reference letters 
submitted with his petition, as well as a presentation about his methodology. The Petitioner also 
asserts that the Director erred in not considering the additional reference letters he submitted in 
response to the Director's RFE. 
Regarding the latter point, the Director rejected consideration of the new letters because they were 
dated after the filing of the petition. A petitioner must establish eligibility for the requested 
classification at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 
45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). 
However, the reference letters primarily address facts that existed prior to the time of filing, and the 
letters are not new facts but the opinions of the Petitioner's colleagues and clients. Accordingly, we 
will consider them as part of the record in our review. 1 
Many ofthe letters submitted, initially and in response to the Director's RFE, are from the Petitioner's 
clients. Some of them are bodybuilders who credit the Petitioner for helping to improve their 
competitiveness. For example, E-D-states that the Petitioner became his personal trainer in 2007, and 
helped him to win local bodybuilding competitions the next year. 2 J-S-similarly credits the Petitioner 
for preparing him for winning a local bodybuilding competition in 2017. Both describe his fitness 
training methodology using words such as "innovative" and "groundbreaking." But as noted in the 
1 We have reviewed and considered all of the reference letters in the record, including those which are not specifically 
referenced in this decision. 
2 The record shows that the Petitioner completed training in sports nutrition and personal training in 2015. but includes no 
evidence ofhis qualifications as a personal trainer in 2007. This discrepancy must be addressed in any further proceedings 
in this matter. 
3 
Director's decision, neither writer explains the way in which Petitioner's methodology and techniques 
are truly novel or innovative. While the Petitioner may well have helped these individuals in their 
training, the letters do not show that his training methodology has impacted the field beyond his 
individual clients to reach the level of contribution required under this 
criterion. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that contributions 
which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). 
Other letters were written by clients who state that the Petitioner's training helped them to overcome 
the effects of health issues. R-M-writes that the Petitioner's method "significantly altered the course 
of my struggle with rheumatoid arthritis," and briefly describes the tailored exercise and nutrition 
programs the Petitioner delivered. D-W-states in his letter that after he suffered a significant injury, 
the Petitioner's training program helped him in his recovery. But we note that the record does not 
show that the Petitioner is a licensed physical therapist, and much like the letters discussed above, 
these are testimonials from satisfied clients which do not demonstrate that the his training methods 
have impacted or influenced the larger field of fitness training. 
Some of the letters assert that the Petitioner's training methods have had broader impacts beyond 
individuals. For example, the letters from M-V-G-, discussed in further detail below in our analysis 
under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), describe how the Petitioner's training program has 
been used in medical classes at and the Petitioner asserts that it has also been used in other 
educational institutions in Russia. But the letters lack sufficient detail regarding how the 
methodologies were used, and the record lacks evidence to support the Petitioner's claims regarding 
their implementation at other universities. 
In a different vein, V-V-T-writes in her letter that she has used the Petitioner's fitness methodology 
in her neurology practice, and in particular in the rehabilitation of patients recovering from strokes. 
As we noted above, the Petitioner is not a licensed physical therapist or any other type of medical 
practitioner, and the assertions that his fitness training has medical applications lack credibility and 
are not supported by documentary evidence beyond the letters. 
Regarding the presentation describing the Petitioner's fitness methodology, the Director stated in her 
decision that there was no evidence in the record ofits publication or distribution. While the Petitioner 
does not respond or repudiate this point on appeal, we note that the methodology appears to be derived 
from papers authored by the Petitioner and published in at least one medical journal.3 But the 
publication of these papers is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's training methods have been 
of major significance in the field of fitness training, as it does not show the field's reaction, if any, to 
those papers. 
Per the above discussion, the Petitioner has not established that his fitness training methodology or 
techniques have influenced his field of endeavor to the extent that they are or major significance, and 
he therefore does not meet this criterion. 
3 At least one of the journals in which papers related to the Petitioner's fitness training methodology were published was 
a journal focused on publishing the works ofyoung researchers and students, including undergraduates, and as such cannot 
be considered a professional or major trade publication. 
4 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence that their work in the 
field of endeavor has been displayed, and that the exhibition or showcase where their work was 
displayed was artistic in nature. An exhibition is defined as a public showing. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
In this case, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence of his participation in amateur bodybuilding 
competitions meets the requirements ofthis criterion. While he initially claimed this to be comparable 
evidence of the display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions, on appeal the Petitioner refers to 
the USCIS Policy Manual and its definition of "exhibition," which includes examples of "works of 
art, objects of manufacture, or athletic skill." However, this inclusion of a definition for "exhibition" 
in the policy manual does not negate the regulatory language requiring that the exhibition or showcase 
be artistic in nature, and the Petitioner has not demonstrated that a bodybuilding competition is artistic. 
More importantly, the Petitioner does not explain how his participation in bodybuilding competitions 
relates to his field of endeavor as a fitness trainer, in which the fruits of his work are seen in others. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his presentations at conferences should be considered to be comparable 
evidence under this criterion per the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). But his unsupported 
assertion that this evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to his occupation is not probative. Id. 
And even if we were to accept the Petitioner's statement that he is "not an artist" as sufficient, which 
we do not, he has also not explained how the presentation of posters and abstracts at conferences is 
comparable to the display of art in a gallery or museum, for example. Further, the Petitioner has not 
identified which of the presentations involved his field of fitness training. We note that several of the 
presentations focus on the Russian healthcare system, which the Petitioner has not asserted to be his 
field of endeavor. 
For all of the reasons given above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have served in a 
role that was either leading or critical for an organization or establishment, or a department of division 
thereof, and that the organization, establishment, department, or division has a distinguished 
reputation. Evidence of a leading role may include a title and matching duties, and should indicate 
that the petitioner is or was a leader. Evidence supporting a critical role should show that the petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or 
establishment's activities, or those of a division or department. Second, a petitioner must show that 
the organization or establishment, or department or division thereof, for which the leading or critical 
role was performed has a distinguished reputation. Factors may include the size, longevity, media 
coverage, awards, and industry rankings of the organization, establishment, department, or division. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ). 
5 
Here, the Petitioner relied on his roles with S-T-LLC and I The evidence regarding his role 
with the former includes an agreement by which the Petitioner served as a brand ambassador for the 
company for an initial period ofapproximately three months. A letter from A-R-, the company's CEO, 
states that due to the Petitioner's role, the company secured major contracts for distribution of its 
products, and that he anticipates that the Petitioner will represent S-T-LLC at events in the United 
States in the future. A second letter from A-R-, submitted in response to the Director's RFE, reiterates 
that the Petitioner has been "pivotal in securing major contracts," and that he was "instrumental" in 
the company's successful entry into three named countries. However, the letter does not quantify the 
significance of the Petitioner's impact on the company's profitability, or provide other detailed 
information concerning his importance to the company's activities. Per the section of the USCIS 
Policy Manual referenced in the Petitioner's brief, letters such as these can be helpful as long as they 
include detailed and probative information. Id. The letter also stresses the Petitioner's role in trade 
shows, but only specifically mentions the I !Festival, in which the Petitioner competed in 
2019 and 2020. And as in the previous letter, A-R-stresses the Petitioner's future activities on the 
company's behalf in the United States, which does not demonstrate how he has already played a 
critical role for the company. As such, this evidence does not establish that as a brand ambassador, 
the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for S-T-LLC. 
Turning to the Petitioner's role for he submitted two letters from M-V-G-, who states that she 
is the chairman ofthe trade union bureau of students at the institution. In her first letter, she states that 
the Petitioner's fitness training methodology has been used in "the educational process" for five 
courses at the university, including physiology, anatomy, and endocrinology. Her second letter 
provides additional explanation, stating that the integration of the Petitioner's fitness techniques into 
these courses is "instrumental in fostering a more comprehensive approach to health education." She 
writes that students experience "physical implications in real-time through [the Petitioner's] fitness 
programs," and that his methodologies "instill[ing] habits of physical fitness and holistic health in 
future medical professionals." We first note that the writer does not describe any details of the 
Petitioner's methodologies beyond vague references to a "periodization system and a nutrition plan," 
nor does she explain how exactly these are incorporated into a classroom setting. More importantly, 
she does not indicate the extent to which the Petitioner's workhas impacted the five named courses, 
or how this has affected quantifiable educational outcomes at Finally, as M-V-G-does not 
explain her role at in any detail, the level of her personal knowledge of the Petitioner's 
methodologies and their impact on the university's medical curriculum is not apparent. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his roles with either of these 
organizations have been leading or critical. As the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
element ofthis criterion, we need not discuss the remaining element to ascertain whether the Petitioner 
meets all of the criterion's requirements. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the evidence in the record 
and conclude that it does not show that either S-T-LLC or I Ihas a distinguished reputation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to published 
material about him and his work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and his authorship of scholarly articles 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot 
6 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of meeting at least three of criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal. We therefore reserve the 
Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding these additional evidentiary criteria. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 30, 2024 In Re: 33610892 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a security manager and fitness trainer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of them. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains he meets six evidentiary categories. 1 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors.2 
The Petitioner presented a 2021 "Diploma" from the for his 
"achievements in work and impeccable service in the Internal Affairs Bodies." In addition, the 
Petitioner provided a "Letter of Appreciation" addressed to his parents from the "Commander ofI I stating that the Petitioner "worthily fulfilled his military duty and parental wishes 
in the service ofthe Fatherland." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that these honors from his police 
and miliary supervisors reflect national or international recognition rather than recognition limited to 
his employer or military unit. The record does not include supporting documentation demonstrating 
the significance of his Diploma and Letter of Appreciation in the field of endeavor or indicating that 
they have received media coverage or other attention that rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. Without further evidence regarding their national or international significance in his field, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his honors are nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field. The Petitioner therefore has not established that he meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
1 In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that he did not meet the high salary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not raised or contested on appeal to be 
abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
(citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the Kazakhstan 
Federation of Boxing (KFB) and the Oidene Hand-to-Hand Combat Federation (OHCF). USCIS 
determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members have 
outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 3 The petitioner 
must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 4 
The Petitioner provided documents from KFB 's website discussing its "Events, achievements, history" 
and a letter from of the OHCF, listing its "objectives" and "key activities," 
but this information does not establish that their membership criteria rise to the level of outstanding 
achievements. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that admission to membership in the 
KFB and the OHCF is judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from statin that the Petitioner served as one of nine 
judges at the ___________________ in 2014 inl IThis 
letter lists ten evaluation criteria used to judge the athletes. Based on the specific information in the 
letter, we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner's service was limited to 
"refereeing" and solely involved "ensuring fair play according to the rules." Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's determination on this issue and conclude that the Petitioner meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters of support from his colleagues and a 
document entitled "Methodological Manual for Hand-to-Hand Fighting I I The 
Director considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
4 Id. 
5 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director overlooked "the detailed and specific endorsement 
provided by respected figures in the field, such as thel Iofthe OHCF, Mr.I I He asserts 
that "[t]hese endorsements are not merely expressions of admiration but are backed by concrete 
examples of the positive outcomes resulting from the implementation of the Petitioner's 
methodology." The Petitioner's references discussed his work as a fighting coach, but their statements 
do not demonstrate the originality of his work and its major significance in the field. 6 As discussed 
below, the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
Regarding the Petitioner's hand-to-hand fighting program, ____ stated: 
[The Petitioner's] innovative and original methodology has had a profound impact on 
our training programs. His unique approach, backed by his extensive research and 
experience, has been successfully implemented by other instructors and coaches, 
resulting in exceptional performances by our athletes. This comprehensive method 
encompasses vital elements such as athletic psychology, nutrition, and data science, 
ensuring that all aspects necessary who are achieving exceptional results are covered. 
While Mr.I indicated that the Petitioner's work has impacted the OHCF and its programs, the 
Petitioner has not shown that his methodological manual has influenced the self-defense field in a 
substantial way (beyond the Federation's instructors, coaches, and students) or that it otherwise 
constitutes an original contribution of major significance in his field. Mr. letter does not 
offer specific examples ofhow the Petitioner's program has affected his sport to the extent that it is of 
major significance in the field. 
In addition, _____ a mixed martial arts competitor and coach, indicated that he "studied 
and was a student of my coach [the Petitioner]. I met him at the beginning of 2014 and from that 
moment I started training with a coach. His main distinguishing character was that he trained from 
the heart and a desire to work, as well as to help everyone who was engaged in his gym become better." 
Mr. I I further stated: "During all the time of my training, [ the Petitioner] was always with 
us. He helped to improve my techniques of punches and kicks, as well as work on physical fitness. 
His work as a coach was quite satisfactory to me, since the approach to training was of high quality 
and different from many others." The Petitioner, however, has not shown that his coaching 
accomplishments rise to the level of original athletic-related contributions of major significance in the 
field. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that the level of attention received by his work signifies 
that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his specific work rises to the level of original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our decisions 
concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, 
clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) 
(upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily evidence of a track record of 
success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 
6 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held evidence insufficient "because it 
did not show widespread replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original work has affected his field at a level commensurate with contributions ofmajor 
significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented a letter from discussing the 
Petitioner's role as a trainer and coach as well as his teaching a fighting skills master class in June 
201 7. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that his work was displayed 
at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner maintains on appeal that his teaching of a master 
class involving "detailed training on techniques such as hand and foot strikes, submissions, holds, 
stretching and functional endurance -key elements in combat sports" meets this criterion. The 
Petitioner's field, however, is not in the arts. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) expressly 
requires that a petitioner's work be displayed at "artistic exhibitions or showcases." The Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that providing fight sports instruction to a group of students equates to display of his 
work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, USCIS looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 7 A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. 8 For a critical role, USCIS 
looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment.9 A petitioner must also demonstrate that the 
organization or establishment, or the department or division for which they hold or held a leading or 
critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 10 Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or "befitting an eminent 
person." 11 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role for the OHCF, 
Ministry oflntemal AffairsJ land State Security Service of the 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
10Id. 
11 Id. 
5 
I Republic of Kazakhstan. The Petitioner, however, has not presented evidence showing that these 
organizations have a distinguished reputation. While the Petitioner asserts that they are "esteemed 
institutions and organizations," he does not point to any corroborating evidence in the record showing 
their eminence, distinction, or excellence. Because the documentation in the record does not establish 
the distinguished reputation of the OHCF, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Iand State Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that they meet the requirements of this criterion. Since this issue is dispositive, we 
decline to reach and hereby reserve the appellate arguments regarding whether the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading or critical role for these organizations. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 
25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is 
unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). The 
Petitioner therefore has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
While the Petitioner meets the judging criterion, he has not established he satisfies the criteria relating 
to awards, memberships, contributions of major significance, artistic display, or leading or critical 
role. Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the initial criteria is dispositive of his appeal, 
we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. We therefore reserve this issue. 12 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 24, 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. 
6 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 