U.S. Citizenship 
and In1n1igration 
Services 
MATTER OF 1-0-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 2, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the appeal that followed, noting 
that the Petitioner had not identified any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and reconsider, asserting that her brief did not 
arrive due to circumstances beyond her control. After a complete review of the Petitioner's 
arguments and evidence submitted, we denied the joint motion to reopen and reconsider, concluding 
that she had not established that she meets at least three criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision. On motion, 
the Petitioner submits additional evidence pertaining to the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), asserting that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will deny the joint motion to reopen and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability. The 
term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). A petitioner can demonstrate a 
one-time achievement (that is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of I-O-, ID# 13843 39 (AAO Jul. 31, 2018). 
Matter of 1-0-
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three 
criteria, we will determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
11. ANALYSIS 
A Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reconsider must be supported by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or 
regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or 
Department of Homeland Security policy. The Petitioner does not contend that our previous 
decision was based on an incorrect application of USCIS law or policy as required for a motion to 
reconsider. Therefore, this motion is denied. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner has submitted documentary evidence that was not submitted 
previously, which we will discuss below. 
2 
.
Matter of 1-0-
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a dancer and choreographer. As she has not established that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In our previous decision, we denied the motion to reopen, 
holding that the evidence submitted did not demonstrate that the Petitioner met three criteria as 
required. Specifically, we held that the Petitioner satisfied the judging and display criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii) but that she did not meet the requirements of the criteria for 
awards or published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). Here, the Petitioner submits 
additional evidence pertaining to the awards criterion. 2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion for awards received as a member of the 
dance group First, she claims that her 2003 performance with this group at the 
in Syria meets these requirements. She states that her plaque from this event was for 
participation because "there is no competition for first, or second or third place, or anything of the 
like." Instead, the Petitioner asserts that performing alone at the historic amphitheater 
represents recognition of excellence. However, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires 
receipt of actual prizes or awards for excellence in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion based upon her participation in the 
Next, the Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion for receiving the grand prize in the category 
of dance at the 
in 2005. She submits the translation of a certificate from this 
competition with a copy of the original certificate, indicating that the "Grand Prize in the category of 
dance" was awarded to the children's ensemble Although counsel states that 
"[t]he prize is nationally recognized," the assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 
503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent 
evidence. Here, the Petitioner submits a document that appears to be written by 
Director of the show agency, about the in 2005.3 While it 
claims that the competition is the largest and most famous in the Ukraine, the record lacks evidence 
corroborating that assertion, such as media coverage. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that the award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
In addition, the document from 
given to the winners of the provides conflicting information about the awards 
It states that this contest includes three 
2 The Petitioner also claims that she was a victim of notario fraud in that an individual holding himself out to be an 
attorney, but who is not actually licensed to practice law, had previously advised her regarding the instant petition. 
3 Near the end of this document, it states, "[i]nformation is provided by , Director of the 
show agency." We further note that this original letter is a blurred photocopy, which does not comply with 
8 C.F .R. § 204.S(g)(l) (requiring ordinary legible photocopies). 
3 
.
Matter of 1-0-
phases, a general qualifying round, final round, and the final gala concert in which "[t]he winners of 
the competition are awarded with gold, silver and bronze medals." However, the Petitioner claims to 
have received a "Grand Prize" from this competition, an award which does not 
identify. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). The 
inconsistent evidence in the record does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of an award for 
excellence from the competition. 
The Petitioner also claims to meet this criterion for the competition in 1998, which 
she states is a Ukrainian television children's competition. In a document signed by 
the founder and general producer of the competition, He states that this 
is "not just a competition, but a search for new talents, incredible performances, unexpected images, 
interesting meetings, positive emotions and new acquaintances," adding that it is "a great 
opportunity to take the first steps on the professional stage." Further on, states, "[t]he 
winners of the competition receive an exclusive award -the highest award of the 
He ultimately concludes, "[t]he winner of 
the competition in the nomination 'Choreography,' the winner of the in 1998 
We note that this is a Ukrainian 
television competition that provides opportunities for children to gain exposure for their talents, but 
the record does not provide sufficient evidence to establish that the award the Petitioner's ensemble 
won constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also contends that a diploma received by the ensemble at the 
n 2008 establishes her eligibility. She submits a document prepared by 
the producer of the festival In this document, she appears 
to cite a link about this festival from Facebook which states, "[t]he largest annual festival was 
founded in 2007 and about 60 collectives take part in it." This document states that the purposes of 
the festival include the "development of amateur and choreographic art," "attracting the general 
public and creative intelligentsia to the activities of cultural and education institutions and amateur 
collectives." The document identifies the jury of the festival as "the leading figures of culture and 
arts, highly qualified specialists in the field of folk and modern choreography, heads of professional 
choreographic groups, art critics, specialists in the genre of choreography." In discussing the 
winners of the 2008 master class the document states, "Diploma of the I stage at 
the nomination 'Folk dance,' the age category of 10-13 years is given to the exemplary ensemble 
The Petitioner has not established that this diploma represents an award or 
that it is for excellence in the field. Thus, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this represents a 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, and she has not established 
that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reconsider is denied as the Petitioner has not asserted that our prior decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The motion to reopen is denied because the 
4 
Matter of 1-0-
evidence the Petitioner has submitted does not constitute the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
The motions will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of 1-0-, ID# 2216923 (AAO Apr. 2, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of M-D-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a fashion model for in New 
York, New York. As the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following two criteria: published material under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record reflects that 
major media featured the Petitioner in their publications and she commands a high salary in her field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the published material and high 
salary criteria. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has displayed her work at various fashion shows and 
exhibits satisfying the artistic display criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore , the 
Petitioner established that she fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence in the context of the finial merits determination below. 
2 
.
Matter of M-D-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has walked hundreds of runways, including the top four 
international fashion week events in and for top designers, such as 
and Further, she has participated in advertising 
campaigns for prestigious brands, such as ___ and For instance, 
casting director for confirmed that the Petitioner was selected "year after year 
since 2013 for our runway shows." In addition, image and advertising campaign 
manager for indicated the Petitioner's modeling of the company's brands for three 
years. For these reasons, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has achieved a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Moreover, the Petitioner has been featured in major publications, such as Time, Vogue, Elle, and 
Glamour. In fact, New York Magazine named the Petitioner as one of the "Top Models" where she 
opened for In addition, the Petitioner has appeared on the covers of major 
magazines, such as and . Accordingly, the Petitioner has established 
the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The demand for the Petitioner's work has resulted in her commanding a high salary placing her among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Indeed, Elle magazine 
wrote that the Petitioner has "conquered the catwalk" and "has been one of the most booked models 
ever since." As further evidence of her status in the field, the record contains recommendation letters 
setting her significantly apart from other fashion models. For example, Belgian fashion designer 
stated that the Petitioner "is a 'household' name among fashion industry leaders and is 
known to be one of the top models in the international field," and she "enjoys the greatest level of 
commendation and achievement in the fashion arena." 
In summary , the Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a fashion model. The totality 
of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that 
she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has documented 
sustained international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) , (3); 
1 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that users officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Matter of M-D-
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained 
national and international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that she intends to continue working in her area of 
expertise and that she will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § l36l;Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&NDec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofM-D-, ID# 2590356 (AAO Apr. 2, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 3, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of 
anesthesiology. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets two other criteria, relating to making original 
contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and performing in a leading 
and critical role, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He maintains that he qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is an anesthesiologist who has trammg in adult neurosurgical 
anesthesiology and pediatric neuroanesthesiology, and is qualified to conduct intraoperative 
neurophysiological monitoring. The record shows that he has a doctor of medicine degree and a degree 
of bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery. His resume states that he has worked as a professor 
of anesthesiology in India, a staff fellow physician anesthesiologist at the 
and ____ as well as a medical director for 
, a subsidiary of 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented documentation from the Journal of 
Anaesthesiology Clinical Pharmacology and the Journal of Obstetric Anaesthesia and Critical Care, 
professional publications, confirming that he served as their reviewer and reviewed manuscripts 
between 2006 and 2017. In addition, the record confirms that he has authored scholarly articles that 
are published in professional journals, including 
that appeared in the Journal of Anaesthesiology Clinical Pharmacology , and 
that appeared in the Indian Journal 
of Urology. While the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
2 
.
Matter of A-T-
as we will explain below, he has not met the initial evidence requirements of satisfying at least three 
criteria. 1 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of anesthesiology. Major significance in the 
field may be shown through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have 
been widely accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual ( AFM) Chapter 22. 2, AFM Update AD 11-14 8-9 (Dec. 
22, 20 I 0), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-l 40-evidence-pm-
6002-005-l. pdf. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets 
this criterion because his articles have appeared in "some of the most prestigious journals in the field"; 
other scientists have cited to and relied on his findings; the 
has referenced his research in its guidance to medical professionals; he has 
collaborated with to develop monitoring software, and the field of 
anesthesiology has shown interest in his ___ device. 
The Petitioner's written work and citation frequency are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
According to a statement he initially submitted in support of the petition, he has "published about 50 
peer-reviewed publications that include original research manuscripts, review articles, case reports 
and peer-reviewed abstracts" and that his articles have appeared in "some top-ranking journals." 
Evidence of publication in respectable journals and presentation in reputable forums shows that the 
Petitioner has shared his research. To satisfy this criterion, he must establish that the reaction from 
the field upon the dissemination of his work confirms that the value of his research rises to the level 
of "contributions of major significance" in the field, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner asserts that his citation frequency establishes that he meets this criterion. He offers 
documents from Clarivate Analytics, listing "baselines-citation rates" for clinical medicine. He, 
however, has not explained how citation information about clinical medicine relates to his 
contributions in anesthesiology , the field in which he claims extraordinary ability. Similarly, the 
record includes documents relating to citation percentile in the research area of "anesthesia , intensive 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationa lly 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 lf a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigrat ion Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4. 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-
care medicine, medicine, surgery," but they do not specifically list information about his contributions 
in the field of anesthesiology. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not shown that the number of citations his work has garnered confirms 
his research qualifies as contributions of major significance in the field. On appeal, he submits a 
Google Scholar printout, indicating that his most cited article, published in 2013, received 7 4 citations, 
and his second most cited article, published in 2002, received 39 citations. 3 The printout reveals that 
many of his articles have not garnered any citation. According to a letter from the editor­
in-chief of , the Petitioner's 2013 article was the 
journal's second most cited article. The evidence shows that the journal's h5-index and h5-median, 
which relate to its standing in the field, are relatively low as compared to the top ten publications in 
anesthesiology. Evidence regarding the Petitioner's citation rate does not confirm that his articles 
"have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries 
(particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field." 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted some examples of other scientists citing to and relying on his 
research, he has not demonstrated that his articles have been cited as authoritative in the field or have 
influenced the field in a significant way. He offers incomplete copies of articles that cite to his studies, 
but these documents reference his work among many other studies, and do not include an in-depth 
discussion about his research. For example, the 2017 article 
' cites one of his articles among at least 108 other sources, and the 
2016 article 
cites his work among at least 52 studies. The Petitioner has not shown that his findings are 
authoritative or have otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's research on fatigue in anesthesia 
practice qualifies as contributions of major significance in the field. He has submitted an 
document entitled This document cites 
two of the Petitioner's articles, among 47 studies, to support the proposition that "[t]he consequences 
of fatigue have serious implications for patient safety and the overall wellness of anesthesia 
professionals." It advises that"[ m ]anaging fatigue has the potential to improve the quality of patient 
care and outcomes to spur excellence in clinical and professional practice." The Petitioner has not 
established that references to his research in the document or other articles are indicative of 
his work's significant impact in the field. Rather, these publications acknowledge that his studies have 
added to the general pool of knowledge, which, without evidence of significant influence in the field, 
is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Furthermore , while the record shows that the Petitioner was involved with inventing 
which, according to a consultant anesthetist at the . 
is "a fluid delivery system ... that reduces harmful effects by preventing the medical 
errors from occurring ," he has not shown that has been widely used in the field. 
a professor in the Department of Anesthesiology in the __________ at 
3 According to an article " " which the Petitioner offers on appeal, the citation frequency 
referenced in Google Scholar might include citations in non-scholarly writings. 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-
states that -"represent[ s] the categories of drugs most commonly used 
in anesthesia: 
drugs." explains that the "product contains seven syringe ports" that 
"interlock with only one designated syringe," which "allows the medical provider to assure that the 
syringe contains the correct drug and is correctly administered intravenously." The Petitioner, 
however, has not presented evidence verifying that his invention has been widely used in the field. 
Rather, according to two 2017 email correspondence in the record, researchers could not confirm if 
had ever been tested or used in a clinical setting. The evidence therefore does not establish 
that his invention constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
While the record includes an unsigned agreement between 
and the Petitioner, it does not show that he is "collaborat[ing] with a major American 
company, regarding the development of next-generation monitoring software for 
patients under anesthesia," as he has claimed in the appellate brief The unsigned agreement specifies 
the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the use of data communication 
protocols for the exchange of data between products and third party medical equipment. 
It does not discuss the Petitioner's work or impact in the field of anesthesiology. 
Finally, the reference letters in the record similarly are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).4 
Some of these letters discuss in detail the nature of the Petitioner's work, claiming he has advanced 
the field. For example, the record includes letters from , a professor of anesthesiology 
in the School of Medicine at the in New Zealand; a professor in 
the Department of Neurosurgery at the and 
, a professor of women's health at the These letters 
state that other scientists have cited to and relied on the Petitioner's work. The letters, however, are 
insufficient to confirm that his impact or influence in the field has risen to the level of "major 
significance." See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting 
to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion). The Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his work -which may have resulted in incremental advancements in the 
field, as such are expected in any original research -qualifies as contributions of major significance 
in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 ("Letters that lack 
specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The above and other letters not specifically discussed, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, 
insufficient to confirm widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the field of 
anesthesiology has regarded his research as authoritative. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently 
explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). Based on the evidence in the record, the Petitioner 
4 While not every letter in the record is discussed, all were considered in reaching our conclusion. 
5 
.
Matter of A-T-
has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field of anesthesiology. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on the work he has performed 
for his employer, 5 For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or 
was a leader. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. If the petitioner claims 
to have performed a critical role, he or she must establish that the role is or was of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be 
considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is 
not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical. Id 
According to an August 2018 letter from the Petitioner serves as the medical 
director for . a subsidiary of The letter describes his duties and work 
for ___ and sufficiently shows that he performs a leading and critical role for his employer. 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that qualifies as an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
According to a 2018 Tech Journal Hub article, and approximately 20 other 
companies are "top players" in the global intraoperative market. A 2015 
NFIB article calls one of "the top five companies in the nation in their field." 
claims that is its most productive subsidiary and is affiliated with more than 50 
hospitals. The record includes a list oflocations where offers its services, and a document 
showing that the awarded contracts to While these documents 
verify that is active in the market, they are insufficient to establish that it has a 
distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not pointed to any legal authority to support a position 
that "distinguished reputation" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) can be shown through a company's 
size and clients. 
The Petitioner has also submitted an article posted on the website, 
noting that and other companies donated to a surgical mission trip to India. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that this information, which relates to the company's one act of 
generosity, is sufficient to confirm that his employer has a "distinguished reputation." In light of the 
above, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion because he has not presented "[e]vidence that [he] 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. " See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
5 While the record appears to show that the Petitioner works for in addition to its subsidiary, 
in his appellate brief, he has not alleged that he performs in a leading or critical role for ____ We will 
therefore focus our discussion on his role for 
Matter of A-T-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofSkirballCulturalCtr., 25 I&NDec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met." 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-, ID# 2607377 (AAO Apr. 3, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-0-0-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 3, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petitioner Alien Worker. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal 1 and subsequently denied a motion to 
reopen. 2 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. Upon review, we will deny the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 3 
1 See Matter of J-O-O-, ID# 868229 (AAO Jan. 26, 2018). 
2 See Matter of J-O-O-, ID# 1482034 (AAO Sept. 5, 2018) 
3 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
.
Matter of J-0-0-
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements of a 
motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
11. PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
The Director denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidentiary criteria 
applicable to individuals of extraordinary ability, either a major, internationally recognized award or 
at least three of ten possible forms of documentation. Specifically, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not meet any of the criteria. We then dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, concluding that 
she only fulfilled the criterion for judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Subsequently, we denied the 
Petitioner's motion to reopen, determining that her additional evidence did not establish that she 
achieved any additional criteria. 
In the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner references the Director's decision made in a prior 
petition filing, as well as the Director's request for evidence (RFE) issued in the most recent filing. 
Thus, the Petitioner argues that she meets two additional criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider 
does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, a motion to reconsider must be supported 
by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services or Department of Homeland Security. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director previously determined in denying her first petition 
that she satisfied the awards criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i).4 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that in the RFE for her current petition, the Director indicated that 
she fulfilled the published material criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner claims that she meets three of the evidentiary criteria. 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
4 The Director stated that the Petitioner "has provided sufficient documentation " to meet the awards criterion without 
identifying the documentation or indicating which award(s) fulfilled the criterion. 
5 The Director indicated that "[t]his criterion has been met" for published material without providing any further 
explanation or justification. 
2 
Matter of J-0-0-
In regards to her prior petition, the scope of the Petitioner's eligibility is limited to the record of 
proceedings regarding only this petition. Further, statements or determinations by a director in an 
RFE do not constitute a final or official decision. In fact, the Director issued a decision explaining 
why her evidence did not meet the evidentiary criteria, including the awards and published material 
criteria. In addition, we are not bound by decisions of a service center or district director. See La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). Finally, we 
conducted a de nova review of the record regarding the Petitioner's appeal and evaluated her evidence 
in her motion to reopen. In both instances, we thoroughly analyzed the evidence and explained why 
her documentation did not satisfy the awards and published material criteria. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in finding that she fulfilled only one criterion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
Cite as Matter of J-0-0-, ID# 2675726 (AAO Apr. 3, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-K-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITIONER FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award) or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that she satisfies four of the 
evidentiary criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, and 
so must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In her 
decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met only the display criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also satisfies the requirements of the 
criteria relating to media about her, contributions of major significance, and leading or critical role. 
We will analyze the evidence submitted under each of these criteria below. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director's decision found the evidence to be insufficient to establish that any of the magazine and 
Internet articles that were about the Petitioner and her work qualified as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. The Petitioner provided several articles pertaining to her 2015 
debut, solo photographic exhibition which took place at in 
An article published in the digital and print editions of VEOIR magazine discusses themes the 
Petitioner explores in the exhibition 's photographs of the model _____ such as the demise 
2 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
of human civilization and the destruction of the planet. A press release form the webpage 
www.loeildelaphotographie.com, a news and events aggregator, states that the Petitioner's exhibit is 
"a radical denunciation of society and its behavior." A press release on the webpage www.from­
paris.com indicates that the exhibition will take place during and is comprised of 
25 works in which the Petitioner "denounces in a radical way the modes of behavior" of our society. 
This press release also states that ________ presents the works "of emerging and 
confirmed artists." 
As noted by the Director, the comparative data regarding the circulation and viewership figures of the 
above publications does not establish that these publications qualify as professional or major trade 
publications or other major. The Petitioner provided a media kit from VEOIR magazine which 
indicates it is a biannual fashion magazine based in New York. It claims its first issue "gained 3000+ 
followers on Facebook and 1,000+ followers on Instagram," and that it is "estimated to print 5000+ 
copies." The record lacks evidence, however, to corroborate the circulation figures provided by 
VEOIR's publisher or to demonstrate the significance of the figures. 
Regarding the website www.loeildelaphotographie.com, information submitted from the webpage 
www.similarweb.com indicates that it had 179,000 total visits in the first six months of 2018, ranking 
it 23,016 in France. Regarding the website www.from-paris.com, information from the webpage 
www.siteworthtraffic.com indicates that it had 210,605 total annual visits, and its "Global Traffic 
Rank is 1, 779,020." The comparative data regarding the circulation and viewership figures of 
www.loeildelaphotographie.com and www.from-paris.com do not establish that these publications 
qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major. Further, we note that the press 
releases published on those sites do not provide the author's name, as required by the plain language 
of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles that mention her work on photo shoots of vintage dress 
collections by the designer in 2012 during at the 
store in 2012, and in 2016. The articles were published on webpages such as 
www.vogue.ru and www.buro247.ru. However, these articles are not about the Petitioner, but about 
the dress collections. 1 For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. The Director 
determined that the record did not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The Petitioner 
1 In addition, regarding the webpage ,vww.buro247.com, the website metrics from www.similarweb.com do not provide 
comparative analyses, and, therefore, do not establish that this webpage qualifies as a professiona l or major trade 
publication or other major media. 
3 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
submitted several testimonial letters in support of the petition. We determine that the submitted letters 
and other documentary evidence do not satisfy this criterion. 
The letters submitted by the Petitioner generally praise her work and highlight what the authors 
describe as her unique use of the camera and medium format photography. For example, 
a production designer, states she became acquainted with the Petitioner's work 
through the Petitioner's project which focuses on the homeless population in 
She calls the Petitioner's use of a medium format camera "an original and unique 
contribution to the photography world." 
a professor of set and costume design at the 
in Russia, states that in 2016 she invited the Petitioner to teach a "master class" on the use of 
medium format photography in the fashion industry. She credits the Petitioner with the "introduction 
of medium format photography ... for fashion publication editorials and covers." She claims that few 
photographers choose to work with the camera required for the technique, because it "is large, requires 
skill in handling, and it takes photographs slowly." She states that the class was "an invaluable 
experience" for the students and "should be replicated in other areas to increase the awareness of this 
important and underutilized format." However, and did not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner's medium format photography significantly impacted or influenced 
the field. The Petitioner did not show, for example, that the overall field considers her work to be of 
major significance. 2 
a fashion coordinator with states that the Petitioner has worked 
with the magazine on a number of projects. She describes her as "a fashion photographer and a fine­
art photographer" with "incredible scope." She notes that the Petitioner has worked for "some of the 
top international brands and fashion magazines in Russia and abroad, for whom she has contributed 
beautiful magazine covers, photo editorials, advertisements, and photographic accompaniments." She 
credits the Petitioner's skillful use of medium format photography for "a striking effect of realism" in 
her photographs. While she praised the Petitioner's work, did not identify original 
contributions or show how the field has been greatly impacted or influenced by the work. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover , USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
2 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/PolicyManua l.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
4 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
In addition, while the record indicates that the Petitioner's photographs have been used in 
advertisements for companies such as telecommunications and the 
and have appeared on the covers and in editorials of fashion magazines such as Vogue Russia, Marie 
Claire Russia, Interview Russia, OK!, Aeroflot Style, and Officiel, it does not establish that having her 
work displayed in this manner constitutes a contribution to the field of photography. 5 
The record also shows that the Petitioner has had success more recently as a fine art photographer, 
which is supported by the evidence of local media coverage of her solo exhibition in 
While having that exhibition displayed at is notable, as mentioned 
previously, the press release from the webpage www.from-paris.com indicates the venue presents the 
works of emerging artists along with those of established artists. This evidence does not demonstrate, 
therefore, the venue's recognition or reputation in the field of photography, and thus that the display 
of the Petitioner's work there is considered to be a contribution of major significance. Further, her 
work has been offered for sale by online art gallery, but this evidence does not demonstrate 
that her work has influenced the broader field of photography. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that invitations for her to teach at the 
and the in are "a sign of the industry reputation that [the 
Petitioner] carries for her significant contribution .... [in] bringing medium format photography into 
the industry." As discussed previously, while it appears from the evidence that the Petitioner is one 
of a few fashion photographers using the camera and medium format photography in her 
work, the significance of her use of this technique in the field has not been established. For instance, 
indicates that replication of the Petitioner's technique will "increase the awareness 
of this ... underutilized format," indicating that her methods, while unique, have not been influential 
in the field. Further, regarding the Petitioner's position with the a 2016 press 
release for the school's opening event lists her as an instructor, but does not mention her contributions 
in the field. 6 While the originality of the Petitioner's artistic work as a photographer is not in question, 
the record does not establish that it has impacted the work of others in the field. Based on the above, 
the Petitioner has not established that the evidence satisfies this criterion. 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner provides media kits dated 2018 for the fashion magazines Marie Claire and Vogue Russia to 
show their reach. 
6 This press release, published on the website wvvw.posta -magazine.ru, indicates that the school's staff will include 
film/theater stars, famous photographers, sports coaches, and professiona l teachers. It includes a photograph of the 
Petitioner among those of its staff. 
5 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 294.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the requirements of this criterion. Upon review 
of the record, specifically the evidence regarding the Petitioner's exhibition we agree with 
the Director's finding. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that she has served in a critical role for telecommunications and Marie 
Claire Russia magazine. She indicates that she has performed in a leading role in an episode of the 
television series and in fundraising efforts through her project 
The scope of this evidentiary criterion focuses on the relative importance of the 
Petitioner's role for distinguished organizations. In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role 
itself, and a critical role is one in which the petitioner contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided a letter from the marketing director of 
an event production company in who states that in 2013 the Petitioner won the company's 
contest to work on an advertising campaign for its client a Russian telecommunications 
company. 7 The marketing director indicates that the Petitioner worked on a photoshoot with the 
popular singer to promote new 4G technology, that was "very happy with 
the end result," and that the campaign was "important for to get a much larger contract 
with Although the Petitioner argues that this letter is evidence that she played a critical role 
for , the representative's statement that was "very happy" with the campaign does not 
indicate the Petitioner served in a critical role for In addition, the record does not document 
the manner in which marketing director is authorized to represent or speak on behalf of 
nor does it contain evidence from any individual who appears to be in a position to represent 
In addition, the Petitioner states on appeal that she played a critical role for the fashion magazine Marie 
Claire Russia in providing photography for the feature article in its tenth 
anniversary edition. The Petitioner offered the previously discussed letter from stating 
that the Petitioner provided "the magnificent photos of the men profiled" in the article. She states that 
"[w]e only rarely have the honor of working with [the Petitioner] , as she is always in high demand," 
and she notes that the magazine 's "journalists and models request [the Petitioner] by name as the 
photographer for their editorials and articles." 
Although and the marketing director of speak highly of the Petitioner 's work 
for their organizations , their letters do not establish that she was responsible for the companies ' success 
or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of having performed in a "critical" role for them. 
7 We note that the marketing director's name is not legible because an ink stamp was placed over it. 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
The letters show that her work was consistent with that of a professional photographer, and they 
describe her as having achieved results that met or exceeded those companies' expectations. While a 
company's staff may consider the Petitioner's achievements to be of great benefit to the company, the 
focus of this criterion, based on the plain language of the regulation, is the Petitioner's role itself The 
letters do not establish that her role as a photographer has been a critical role for those companies. For 
example, while marketing director indicates that the Petitioner's work on the 
campaign was "important for us to get a much larger contract with and 
indicates that the Petitioner was a favorite photographer of her staff, their letters do not distinguish her 
position from those of the companies' other photographers, or demonstrate that she contributed in a 
way that was of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
In addition, as noted by the Director, the fact that she may have played a critical role in specific 
magazine editions or advertising campaigns is not sufficient to satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
We also note that the record does not provide any background information or documentation regarding 
to establish that it is an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also maintains that she performed a leading role in episode four, season five of 
The record contains articles from Wikipedia and the website www.vokrug.tv, indicating 
that in 2016 she was the photographer for that episode. We note that Wikipedia is an online, open 
source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. 
See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; see 
also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). Although the Petitioner indicates that she 
performed in a leading role as the photographer for that episode, the evidence indicates that the models 
played the leading roles in the show, not the Petitioner. Regardless, the plain language of the criterion 
requires evidence that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role "for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation." The Petitioner did not identify an organization 
or establishment for which her role in this television episode was leading or critical. 
Further, the Petitioner states on appeal that she played a leading role in the fundraising efforts of 
through her project which focuses on the homeless population in 
The record contains a letter from CEO of described as a 
social service agency, who states that her company is interested in partnering with the Petitioner to 
showcase her project to raise funds for the homeless. This letter does not indicate 
how the Petitioner has performed in a leading role for the organization. Finally, we note that the 
evidence submitted does not establish that has a distinguished reputation in the field. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits 
determination . Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
Matter of A-K-K-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her artistic accomplishments is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-K-K-, ID# 2648379 (AAO Apr. 8, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not established that his occupation "falls within the purview 
of 'the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics"' as set forth in section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Director did 
not properly evaluate his area of expertise. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was the managing lawyer of a Chinese law firm 
and "also the Beijing-based partner of an American law firm." He further stated: "My field of 
endeavor is Chinese intellectual property law, unfair competition, and international trade law, which 
are subsets of the field of business." The record included a May 2018 letter from 
founding partner of indicating that the Petitioner was 
selected for partner in that firm based on "his knowledge of Chinese business and intellectual property 
law." 
The Director issued a notice of intent to deny (NOID) informing the Petitioner that he had not 
established that his profession and intended employment fall "within the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics." In response, the Petitioner presented a June 2018 letter from stating: 
"[The Petitioner will not practice U.S. law as doing so requires admission to California Bar (or that of 
another state). Rather, [the Petitioner] will focus on business client acquisition and relationship 
development in assisting the firm to establish a niche China advisory practice." In addition, 
asserted that the Petitioner "will be charged with planning and research to develop the aims and 
objectives (including financial projections) of this practice area, preparing the message, and devising 
and overseeing strategies to attract prospects to invest trust in the firm. He will connect with contacts 
and cultivate relationships with both U.S. and Chinese companies. " ___ further indicated that 
2 
Matter of J-L-
the Petitioner "will provide strategic planning advice to U.S. companies seeking to operate or expand 
in China and to Chinese companies seeking to operate or expand in the United States." 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that "[t]he practice of law is a profession for purposes of 
eligibility for the EB-2 immigrant visa" and that "[t]he practice of a profession is not one of the fields 
within the EB-I category." The Director further indicated that "Congress specifically included 
members of the professions in sections 203(b)(2)(A) and 203(b)(3)(A)(ii), and excluded them from 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)" of the Act. 
As noted by the Petitioner, a 1995 legal opinion paper from the Office of General Counsel within the 
former Immigration and Naturalization Service indicated that "[t]he INA explicitly categorizes 
lawyers as professionals" and that "lawyers, as lawyers, do not qualify for EB-I immigrant visas." 1 
The opinion goes on to state that "[t]he fact that an alien is a lawyer, or belongs to one of the other 
professions, would not necessarily foreclose the alien's EB-I eligibility if the alien was also qualified 
as a person of 'extraordinary ability' in an EB-I occupation," and that "an alien who is of extraordinary 
ability in business or in some other EB-I endeavor would not be ineligible for EB-I classification 
simply because the alien is also a lawyer." Id. We note that General Counsel opinions are advisory 
in nature and are not binding. R.L Inv. Ltd. Partners v. INS, 86 F. Supp. 2d 1014. 1022 (D. Haw. 
2000). affd. 273 F.3d 874 (9th Cir. 2001). 
Regardless, here, we find that the information and evidence relating to the Petitioner's area of expertise 
and intended employment in the United States is sufficient to demonstrate that his occupation falls 
within the purview of"business" as set forth in section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. However, because 
the Director did not render a determination as to whether the Petitioner has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we are remanding for him to consider whether the Petitioner has met his 
burden of proof with respect to these criteria. Furthermore, if the Director determines that the 
Petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 
2012). 
1 See Genco Op. No. 95-3 (INS), 1995 WL 1796310, entitled "Construction of 'sciences' and 'arts' in Section 203(b)(l) 
and (2): Reconsideration of our March 3, 1994, Legal Opinion." 
3 
Matter of J-L-
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter of J-L-, ID# 2622181 (AAO Apr. 8, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-B-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional document and a brief, arguing that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is a development director for in Russia. 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the leading or critical criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the record supports that conclusion. In addition, we find that the 
Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others and authored scholarly articles in a 
professional publication thereby satisfying the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that 
he fulfills three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated , by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination , we analyze a petitioner 's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
2 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received his "qualification of engineer" from 
in 2001 and obtained a doctor of philosophy from 
in 2004. In addition, the Petitioner indicates that after receiving his degrees, he was 
employed by various companies, such as the 
and . working on projects in the . Russia area. More 
recently, the Petitioner worked as a technology manager on an HlB (specialty occupation) visa for 
in the United States. Currently, the Petitioner is a 
development director for in Russia. As mentioned above, the Director 
found that the Petitioner performed in a leading role, and we determined that he has judged others 
within his field and authored scholarly articles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3 d at 1121-22. The record reflects that he served 
as chairman of a judging committee for in 2009 to evaluate and select a 
museum consulting company for a reconstruction project, as well as a member of the judging 
committee for reconstruction of an opera and ballet theater. 2 However, the Petitioner did not establish 
how his judging experience places him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his chairmanship and membership on two 
judging committees compared to others at the top of the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that his judging experience contributes to a finding that he 
has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
While he served as a chairman and member of a committee for a private company approximately 10 
years ago, the Petitioner did not show that such judging capability is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did 
not demonstrate, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his service on 
two judging committees. 
Serving on a judging committee or participating in an internal review process related to a job does not 
automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
1 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/PolicyManua l.html (stating that users officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classificat ion). 
2 While the Petitioner claimed that he also served on a judging committee at for two projects and submitted 
a letter from the letter discusses the purpose of the judging committee and the duties of the Petitioner 
without establishing that he actually served on the committee. 
3 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in 
his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of project 
review requests relative to others, served in chairmanships of committees for reputable companies, or 
judged highly distinguished projects, the Petitioner has not established that his internal judging 
experience places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's written work does not automatically place one at the top of the 
field. Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored four papers from 2003 -2004 
published in collections of the The Petitioner, however, has not 
established that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991). He has not shown that his authorship of four published articles approximately 15 years 
ago is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his field and is tantamount to 
a career of acclaimed work or that it demonstrates the required sustained national or international 
acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have been 
influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although the Petitioner asserts that "[h]is authored scholarly research 
publications have been widely read [and] cited," he only provides evidence of one article that was 
used as a reference, included in the '1 ___ _ __ "3 While his paper was 
incorporated into project standard, the Petitioner did not establish his authored works have been 
"widely" cited or utilized, and therefore, sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
Further, the Petitioner did not show that the application of his written work by the field represents 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare his authored works to others in his 
field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner performed in a critical role as director of the development 
department of from 2007 -2009 based on his work for a business center construction project. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his employment in this role is reflective of, or has 
3 The Petitioner also indicates that his "Ph.D. thesis, thesis abstract, and the work completed during research phase can be 
found on all the major scientific portals of Russia and Belarus." Although he lists seven websites, he did not submit 
evidence of his work posted on the websites, nor did he demonstrate that they are considered "major scientific portals." In 
addition, the posting of his thesis and related work on websites, in and of itself, does not establish evidence of the 
recognition of his work in the field. 
4 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
resulted in, widespread acclaim from his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has held 
any other leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations, 
nor does it show that his role for approximately 10 years ago is representative of sustained 
national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act; H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to awards, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on receipt of a 2007 
However, the record reflects that the "Present Certificate is given to : 
of project In order to 
fulfill the awards criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 4 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive a , rather, garnered the award. The description of 
this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the 
awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 5 Moreover, the 
Petitioner indicates that in 2000 he received "1st place at the in the field of 
'Industrial and civil construction. "'6 The record contains a diploma from the 
for the competition of students." The Petitioner has not 
established that awards won in competitions that were limited by his student status indicate that he "is 
one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). In addition, even considering his awards in excess of 10 years ago, the Petitioner did not 
show that they are indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
With respect to the Petitioner's memberships, he claims eligibility based on memberships with the 
of the of the Russian Federation and the 
Regarding the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
head of finance for . who asserted that the Petitioner was a member of from 2013 -
2015 and "confirm[ed] that required outstanding achievements of their members as judged by 
nationally recognized experts in the field of Engineering." However, did not explain 
his affiliation with or how he is aware of the Petitioner's membership , nor did he reference or 
provide any source information to support his claims regarding the membership requirements of 
In addition, the record contains a letter from representative of who stated 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5/d. 
6 The Petitioner also claims that in 2006 to have "won the absolute first place by the results of a two-day competition at 
the corporate event m where over 30 top industry executives took part in and earned a prestigious 
title of an MVP (Most Valuable Person)." However, the Petitioner neither references any documentation, nor does the 
record contain such evidence, to support his assertions. Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the "MVP" 
award is nationally or international ly recognized for excellence in the field. 
5 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
that the Petitioner "is an expert in the section of the Scientific and Expert Council" and "[t]he 
nomination of a candidate for the membership in the scientific and expert council must contain 
information regarding his work and scientific activities with a mandatory indication of specialization, 
qualification, scientific achievements and titles, and work experience." The Petitioner, however, did 
not establish that those requirements reflect outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts, nor does it represent an individual who is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(2). As the Petitioner has not shown that he is a 
member of associations that limit membership to individuals with renowned endeavors, his 
membership evidence does not contribute to a finding that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner claimed that "[t]he major professional publication of the 
largest company of the Russian Federation, published an article 
about [him] and his master classes." The Petitioner submitted a letter from 
department of record keeping for who stated that in 2013 the Bulletin of the Joint Scientific 
Council of Russian Railways "published an article about [the Petitioner] in the section of the main 
collection of innovative articles regarding the methodology developed by the author." However, the 
Petitioner did not provide the referenced article to support the statements in the letter, nor did he show 
that the Bulletin of the Joint Scientific Council of Russian Railways is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a single article 
published over five years ago is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the evidence does not support the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of 
extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In regards to the Petitioner's contributions, he submitted recommendation letters that base their 
opinions on the Petitioner's "affidavit" and other documentation supplied to them by the Petitioner 
rather than their own professional knowledge of his work in the field. For example, 
stated that he has "reviewed [the Petitioner's] affidavit ... am providing this affidavit based 
on his affidavit." Likewise, referenced "[a]ccording to [the Petitioner's] affidavit" 
several times. Similarly, indicated that he "review[ed] documentation pertaining to [the 
Petitioner's] background in detail." In general, the letters summarize the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, work history, and other claims discussed above. The letters, however, do not 
explain how the Petitioner's achievements have been considered by the field to be of major 
significance. Moreover, they do not contain detailed information showing the unusual influence or 
high impact his contributions have had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 Here, the letters do not provide sufficient information 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. At 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters the repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contribut ions of major significance in the field). 
Matter ofV-B-A-
and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the 
Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-B-A-, ID# 2648584 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a performing artist and actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as 
required, he did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits further documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets an 
additional criterion and has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who has mainly performed in Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United 
States. As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following three criteria: published material under 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and artistic display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a judge at an independent film 
festival and has performed in theaters and at festivals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and artistic display criteria. However, for the reasons discussed 
later in this decision, we do not concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the published material criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of C-B-
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on being a cast member in a production that won an 
and a Specifically, he submitted documentation reflecting 
that the theatrical production, received an for " 
l" and a for " . " In addition, he 
references a 2003 non-precedent decision and argues that "team" awards satisfy this criterion. 
However, the referenced 2003 decision was not published as a precedent and therefore do not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing 
law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguished based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show that the specific facts and circumstances of those cases are strikingly similar 
to those of the present case. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive an or rather, the production 
garnered the awards. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus 
should be on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt 
of the awards or prizes. 2 Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how the awards for" 
" and " __________ '' are in his field of endeavor, performing and acting. 
In addition, the evidence offered by the Petitioner regarding both the and the 
reflect that they also bestow specific, individual awards. For instance, 
they grant awards to best actors and actresses in supporting and leading roles in multiple categories. 
Most relevant here, the Petitioner did not receive an or for 
his cast or acting role in We note that while some award categories are for the production, 
individuals are also specifically credited. For example, the 2011 named the winner of 
"Best Costume Design" to designed by Here, 
and received the award because both were named recipients as opposed to the Petitioner 
who was not recognized or mentioned in the " _________ " or " 
" categories. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/Po licy Manual. html. 
2 Id. 
3 
Matter of C-B-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. Specifically, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which include the title, date, and author. 3 The record reflects that 
he submitted two articles about him published in Gazzetta d'Alba; however, neither article contains 
the required author of the material. In fact, in his appeal brief, he indicates the authors as "N/A" (not 
applicable). 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner offered screenshots from Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic 
overview" for gazzettadalba.it. For example, Similar Web reflects that the website has a global ranking 
of 448,451, a country ranking of 12,992, and total visits of "155.04K." However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that the articles were posted on gazzettadalba.it. Further, although he provides 
evidence relating to general Internet traffic estimators and methodology, the Petitioner did not show 
the significance of gazzettadalba.it's rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such information 
reflects status as a major medium. 4 As it relates to Gazzetta d'Alba, the Petitioner provided 
screenshots from Wikipedia, which claimed that Gazzetta d'Alba is a local, weekly publication with a 
circulation of 15,500. We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia 
that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia 
(April 9, 2019), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 
F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that such circulation figures 
represent major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 5 
Moreover, the Petitioner submitted an article about him published in fl Corriere. However, the 
Petitioner did not include the required date and author of the material. In addition, the Petitioner did 
not present documentary evidence establishing that fl Corriere is a professional or major trade 
publication. Similarly, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from ilprofumodelladolcevita.com 
reflecting an interview of him without offering evidence demonstrating that the website is a major 
medium. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted articles posted on the following websites: varsity.co.uk, 
edinburghguide.com, and festmag.co.uk. However, while the articles briefly mention the Petitioner 
one time as an actor or performer, they are not about him but reviews for shows and plays. Articles 
that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding 
a show are not about the actor). 6 Moreover, for the reasons discussed above, although the Petitioner 
3 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
5 Id. 
6 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
4 
Matter of C-B-
presented screenshots from Similar Web relating to Internet rankings and traffic, he did not explain 
the significance of such statistics and how they reflect the websites' status as major media. 
Finally, the record contains a screenshot from Bouquet TV posted on You Tube along with a letter from 
the television station indicating an episode "featuring [the Petitioner], has been programmed and 
broadcast[ ed] in our circuit," and Bouquet TV encompasses multiple television channels, including 
Italia 2. The Petitioner, however, did not provide a transcript of the episode reflecting published 
material about him. Further, although he submitted a screenshot from Wikipedia regarding a brief 
background for Italia 2, the Petitioner did not establish that the episode aired on Italia 2, nor did he 
show that Wikipedia demonstrates that Italia 2, as well as Bouquet TV, are major media. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that his evidence fulfills the eligibility requirements, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
B. 0-1 N onimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USC IS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USC IS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
5 
Matter of C-B-
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-B-, ID# 2755335 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Muay Thai and mixed martial arts (MMA) coach and trainer, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets six of the ten regulatory criteria, and has established 
his eligibility for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
According to a March 2018 statement, the Petitioner intends to enter the United States to work "as 
Class Instructor (Muay Thai) and Personal Instructor/Coach for the ... [for] 
all skill levels from entry-level to expert." The president of the academy, . indicates that 
the organization is a Muay Thai, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, and Submission Grappling academy in 
The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He, therefore, must submit evidence 
satisfying at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v) to meet 
the initial evidence requirements. Upon a review of the documents, we conclude that he has not 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he satisfies at least three of the following six 
criteria he claims to meet. 1 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative , and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://wvvw.uscis.gov/ laws/policy -memoranda. 
2 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he is the two-time United States Champion. 
He submits certificates indicating that he was the 2005 ' 
and the 2003 
' The record includes 
documents about noting that it is "the oldest and largest organization of its kind, with over 107 
countries in its membership," and that it provides fighters "the best opportunities to compete and to 
move up through the ranks of other top-level competitors." The documents further state that 
offers "an opportunity for fighters to develop from novice class amateur fighters to open class 
amateurs, and then onto the professional level, through safe and competitive events." According to a 
document entitled I the events that the Petitioner 
won in 2003 and 2005 are only open to amateur fighters, who have not "signed a professional (boxing, 
kickboxing, MMA) contract or fought for any monetary compensation," or held "ranking in any 
professional list (i.e. 
etc.)." 
The record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's wins in the two amateur events 
constitute his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field. Specifically, the record lacks sufficient evidence confirming that his accomplishments are 
recognized outside of on a national or international level. For example, he has not shown that 
his wins attracted the level of media attention that might indicate the awards' national or international 
recognition. Moreover, he has not submitted information about the individuals who participated in 
the amateur events that he was in, including their caliber and skill level, which might reveal the 
prestige and recognition of the competitions in the sport. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 6 (providing that for this criterion we should consider "[t]he number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors" and that "an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution ... may have little national or international significance"). Based 
on these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that his accomplishments in the 2003 and 2005 
amateur events are recognized nationally or internationally, or that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion because he was part of the 
national team in 2003 and 2005. He submits certificates showing that he was "an official member of 
the 2005 and "an official member of the 2003 
According to an online printout entitled 
" "[i ]n 2001, set up the first 
and that "[f]inalists from the event comprised the first US Team" that competed in the 
An online printout entitled states that the organization 
has "representatives in more than 90 countries and regularly holds competitions , culminating once a 
3 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
year in the which involves all the amateur material arts disciplines and 
styles under one set competition format." 
The record shows that the Petitioner became the national team member based on 
his 2003 and 2005 compet1t10n successes. He, however, has not shown that his wins at these 
events qualify as "outstanding achievements," as referenced in the criterion. As discussed, the 
competitions are open only to amateur fighters. As such, the top individuals in the sport, who are 
professional athletes, may not complete in them. In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted 
information, such as the number of participants in his events or the caliber of these participants, which 
might reveal whether winning these contests qualify as "outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, the record demonstrates that there are multiple Muay Thai and MMA federations. As such, 
the record does not confirm that being on the national team is similar to being on the national 
team of a sport that has one national governing body, which generally means that only the top 
competitors in the country make the team. Furthermore, the record lacks sufficient evidence 
confirming that the individuals who judged the Petitioner's events are recognized national or 
international experts. As such, he has not shown that his membership on the national team 
constitutes evidence of his membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion. The record includes an Internet Movie Database 
(IMDb) printout, indicating that he appeared as the character in the 2017 
documentary film This document does not satisfy the criterion because it does not 
include information about the author. In addition, other than listing his character in the film, the 
printout does not provide any additional information about him or his work as an athlete or coach. 
Other published materials, such as a 2013 Fighters Only article, while listing him as a coach for a 
particular fighter or establishment, similarly do not include information about him or his work. The 
Petitioner, therefore, has not established that these brief references satisfy the criterion. 
According to a printout from buildseries.com, in 2017, the program Build interviewed the 
Petitioner and others about The Petitioner has not offered a transcript of the interview 
or documentation to show that Build constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media. As such, the record is insufficient to confirm that the interview was about him as relating 
to his work as a coach or athlete published in a qualifying publication or media. 
The record contains other documents , including those showing that the Petitioner served as a 
consultant for an Adidas advertisement campaign entitled · 2 he was 
2 The Petitioner offers an October 2017 letter from the producer of the Adidas commercial · to 
4 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
acknowledged in the books and both written by 
he was one of the guest co-hosts on the podcast 
with and ; and he was the trainer for , a professional 
MMA fighter, who fought in an event that NBC Sports broadcast. While this evidence might show 
that the Petitioner has been gainfully employed and active in the sport, it does not demonstrate that the 
published materials are "about [him] ... relating to [his] work in the field for which classification is 
sought." The Petitioner has not shown that these published materials discuss his biography, his athletic 
accomplishments, or his work as a coach and trainer. Based on these reasons, he has not demonstrated 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion. The record supports his position. According to a 
June 2018 letter from the president of , the Petitioner "has represented 
[the] organization as a Judge and Referee of [its] most prestigious championship events." 
explains that the Petitioner was a judge at the 2016 , and 
"judged more than six world title fights." During this event, the Petitioner "assigned points to the 
individual fighters for given actions such as kicks ... based on the impact of the strike on the 
opponent," and "determine[d] the winners of the world titles." The evidence, including 
letter, sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner alleges that he meets this criterion because he has developed unique training techniques 
that improve performance. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he 
made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original training methods have been 
widely accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the 
field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. 
The record includes a number ofletters from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner , praising 
his training methods. For example, states in a February 2018 letter that the Petitioner "has 
developed specific, innovative, and highly-effective and individualized Muay Thai and MMA 
programs" that "focus on a wide range ofMMA, Muay Thai, and kickboxing techniques ." He claims 
that the Petitioner "played a critical role in [his] success, including [his] victory over 
in 2017. ___ a MMA and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu fighter whom the Petitioner had trained, provides 
verify his involvement with the project. The letter, however, contains two different fonts: one font is used to describe his 
achievements and qualifications, while the other is used for the letter's introductory and closing paragraphs. This calls 
into question the authenticity of the letter and whether it represents the author's independent opinion. 
5 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
in an October 2017 letter that "the pioneering, cutting-edge trammg plans [that the Petitioner] 
developed are the best ... Muay Thai plans and programs" and they "led to [his] winning a prestigious 
championship." states in a June 2018 letter that the Petitioner "is widely known for his 
original, innovative 'periodization' training methods" that "teaches the fighter[s] to manage their 
aerobic energy such that they use their peak energy at the most crucial moments in a tournament." 
While the evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the Petitioner's training methods are innovative and 
unique, it does not confirm that they qualify as contributions of major significance in the field. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. claims in his June 
2018 letter that his academy as well as other training facilities have used the Petitioner's unique 
periodization plans. . the owner and head coach of __ similarly states 
in his June 2018 letter that he has "use[ d] and incorporate[ d the Petitioner's] original technique in [his] 
own coaching and training," which led to his fighter ----~ · .. win[ning] the world 
championship gold medal in 2016." 
These documents illustrate that the Petitioner's methods have been adopted by some coaches and 
trainers, but do not confirm that they have been accepted and implemented by a large number of 
coaches or that they have otherwise influenced training methods in the field in a significant way. For 
example, the record lacks major publication reporting on the Petitioner's methods or noting that they 
have been widely adopted in the sport. This criterion requires documentation of contributions of major 
significance in the field as a whole. Evidence of impact on a limited number of individuals are 
therefore insufficient to satisfy the criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding "letters from physics professors attesting 
to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion). 
Similarly, although ===== provides in his June 2018 letter that the Petitioner has developed 
"a unique to measure a student's progress, and that it "has been adopted 
by many leading instructors in the sport across the U.S.," the evidence does not substantiate his 
statements. Specifically, the record lacks documentation confirming that the Petitioner's grading 
system is unique, such that he is the first or one of the first person to have used it, or that others in the 
field has widely adopted this grading system. 
The documents in the record, including reference letters and evidence we have not specifically 
discussed, do not confirm that the Petitioner's training methods or grading system have significantly 
impacted or influenced, or otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
Letters that offer general praises of the Petitioner and that repeat the regulatory language, but do not 
sufficiently explain how his contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, 9 (noting 
"[l]etters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"). Based on 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because he works for 
According to a February 2018 letter from the Petitioner "serves in the critical and 
leading positions of Class Instructor (Muay Thai) and Personal Instructor/Coach for the 
_," providing "group and private classes in all skill levels" and "periodic workshops and 
seminars," as well as serving "as a representative ... to promote the Academy." The letter further 
notes that the Petitioner, "serving as both Lead Instructor and Co-Instructor," "plays an absolutely 
critical role in ensuring [the establishment's] continued success and reputation as a leading academy 
for professional fighters and celebrities." The evidence sufficiently shows that the Petitioner performs 
in a leading or critical role for 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that is an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
evidence indicates that the academy serves as a training facility for celebrities and professional MMA 
fighters, including and A 2017 GQ Style article, which features "some of 
the best sweatshirts of the season, worn by the normal guys and badass fighters who train [ at 
indicates that the academy "has become an unlikely training spot for 
photographers, models, musicians, Vogue employees," and that its owner, "is a 
famous Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu practitioner and instructor who comes from a long line of similarly well­
known martial artists." In an email setting up GQ Style's visit to the academy, the publication's 
photographer noted that the article is "a small fashion story." An online printout from bjjheroes.com 
provides that the academy is "a gym that rapidly became a reference in America and the world for 
high quality Jiu Jitsu." 
While the evidence shows that is a successful business that serves both 
professional and recreational athletes, including some who are in the entertainment business, it is 
insufficient to demonstrate that the academy has a distinguished reputation. For example, the record 
does not establish that the establishment has received media coverage at a level that shows its 
eminence, distinction, or excellence, which might confirm its distinguished reputation. See USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 10-11 (providing Webster's online dictionary's 
definition of "distinguished"). Although the Petitioner has offered documentation relating to 
athletic accomplishments, this evidence is insufficient to confirm that his academy has 
a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also claims that he has played a leading or critical role for While 
the evidence shows that he has competed in events, trained fighters who participated in 
competitions , and served as a referee and judge at matches, it does not confirm 
that he holds any leadership position within the organization , or is responsible for duties that make 
him a leader of Moreover , the record does not confirm that he has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome or standing of the entity. While most individuals 
involved with an organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role, a 
petitioner must document that his or her work is crucial to the success of the entity. The Petitioner has 
Matter of J-M-C-
not made such a showing here. Based on these reasons, he has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his athletic and coaching accomplishments 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-M-C-, ID# 26083 53 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a documentary filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U. S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, she did 
not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting deficiencies in the 
Director's decision and contending that she has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the 
very top of her field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter o/0-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met four of the 
initial evidentiary criteria: nationally or internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display of her work at artistic exhibitions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3 )(i ). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
2 
.
Matter o/0-K-
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented documentation showing that she won a 
in the "Student Media" category for her production 
(2014). The record contains information from website 
explaining that Awards are presented in "three distinct annual cycles": "Professional 
Media," "Independent & Emerging Media," and "Student & Youth Media." On appeal, the Petitioner 
presents an article, entitled that lists 
the eligibility criteria for the 2017 "Student Media" category: "Lead filmmaker(s) must be enrolled 
in an undergraduate or graduate program at the time of the film's completion. Lead filmmaker(s) must 
be at least 18 years of age. No commercial distribution at the time of entry. Film must be created 
while attending program between January 2016 -June 2017." This information and evidence is 
insufficient to show that the Petitioner's in "Student Media" filmmaking 
rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted evidence indicating that she received a 
award for at the (2015). The 
record includes an announcement for edition of this festival from FilmFreeway.com, a list of 
entries for the festival at www.cultura.trentino.it, and a 2008 article at www.fides.org 
announcing the festival, but they do not mention the Petitioner's ____ award 
or demonstrate its level of recognition in the field of documentary filmmaking. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted a letter from curator of the 
in New York, stating that the Petitioner "possesses impressive 
achievements, including film recognitions such as the 
Likewise, the record includes a letter from the Petitioner's teacher 
at the asserting that the Petitioner's 
"was a significant accomplishment that our industry highly respects" and that her 
involves "immense competition every year" and "demonstrates a phenomenal eye for artistry 
and an unwavering vision for a masterly finished piece." While and 
mention that the Petitioner received these awards, they do not offer further details regarding her 
specific awards or their level of recognition in the field. Accordingly, their statements and the 
information from the above websites are not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's aforementioned 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
The record shows that the Petitioner was a "Bronze Winner" in the "Documentary Feature" category 
at the 2014 ___________ A description of this film festival from 
the website states: 
There's a total of 41 categories (15 primary and 26 creative) and 7 award levels. Best 
Of Show Winner: Will receive and Official Trophy and a guaranteed spot in our 
screening schedule. Diamond Winning Films and Videos: Will receive 
award certificates and will be guaranteed a spot in our screening schedule. 
All other Winners (Diamond creative categories and all Platinum, Gold, Silver, Bronze 
and Honorable Mentions): Will receive digital award certificates and laurels, will be 
3 
.
Matter o/0-K-
listed on their respective winners page. All independent, underground, big and low 
budget projects of all genres and topics are accepted. 
While the is a competition that screens independent films from multiple nations, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's Bronze award constitutes a 
"nationally or internationally recognized" prize or award for excellence in the field. The issue here is 
not the national or international scope of the Petitioner's competitions, but rather whether her specific 
awards are "nationally or internationally recognized" prizes or awards for excellence in the 
documentary filmmaking field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she directed and produced "one episode" of a film about 
Paralympic athletes from six countries. 1 At the received 
awards for "Best Paralympic Film" and "Best Soundmixing." The record includes information from 
this festival listing and as award recipients, but not the 
Petitioner. Regardless, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the aforementioned awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of documentary filmmaking. 
The record contains a certificate stating that the Petitioner's film 
"Honorable Mention" at the 2013 received an 
and information about 
that film festival from its organizers. While contends that earning an "Honorable mention 
at this world renowned festival ... is truly a milestone in any filmmaker' s career," her statement and 
the information from the organizers is not sufficient show that the Petitioner's honorable 
mention rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in 
the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided various newspaper articles mentioning that she was "nominated 
for a 2014 __ 'and a" " While the Petitioner provided 
an event program indicating that she competed in the "Region Three Semifinals" of the 
2014), the record does not include evidence from the 
reflecting her receipt of a _ nomination. 2 
Regardless, the Petitioner's evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that her participation in the 
"Region Three Semifinals" of the __ is a nationally or 
internationally recognize prize or award for excellence in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
1 The Petitioner states that she filmed scenes in Texas that focused on 
The record indicates that this film was "directed by 
½ [m~ , an Americm sledge hockey player. 
, [md] md "produced 
2 Thirty-nine students from 23 U.S. colleges md universities as well as 10 students from foreign universities were selected 
as "finalists" in the competition, but the 
Petitioner was not listed among those finalists. See "20 I 4 
https://vvww . ___ -awardsr-finalists-announced (visited on March 29, 2019, md 
incorporated into the record). 
4 
.
Matter o/0-K-
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented a copy of a page appearing in the New York Times ( 2015) with 
the heading which included several pieces of writing, including one 
entitled ,."3 Below the 
heading, however, a disclaimer states: "This special advertising feature is 
sponsored and produced by and did not involve the reporting or editing 
staff of The New York Times." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that "published material" as 
referenced in the regulation includes this type of promotional material that has not gone through the 
traditional editing and reporting process of the publication. 4 Accordingly, we do not find that this paid 
advertising feature in the New York Times constitutes published material about the Petitioner in major 
media. 
The record includes a 2014 article in NY Blueprint entitled 
' and an 2015 article in Voice of America entitled 
but they are not about the Petitioner. While these articles 
mention the Petitioner and her film, they are about a selection of films at the aforementioned festivals 
and not the Petitioner. This regulatory criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles 
that are not about her do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the 
actor). Similarly, the articles the Petitioner presented from Hipster Jew 2013) and 
Filmkommentaren.dk 2014) are about her film ___________ and not the 
Petitioner. 
The Petitioner submitted a screenshot for "audTV's interview with [the Petitioner] at the 2016 
at reflecting "49 views." The record, 
however, does not include a transcript of this interview or identify the required author of the material. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered a 2014 interview of the Petitioner from IndieWire.com 
entitled [the Petitioner] -
She also provided a 2014 article about her at www. .net5 entitled 
3 At the conclusion of this article, it states: "Read the full story at rbth.com. " The record, however, does not include a 
copy of the "full" article from rbth.com. Nor has the Petitioner shown that the Similar Web rankings and "traffic overview" 
she provided for 
rbth.com establish that website is a form of major media. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/Po licyManua l.html (providing that marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the petitioner). 
5 This website is run by organizers of an annual documentary film festival in 
5 
.
Matter o/0-K-
The record includes additional articles about the Petitioner 
from Aif.ru 
,Mk.ru 
Saint Petersburg ( , City Guide of 
and Futures Centre ( 
As evidence regarding the publications in which the above material appeared, the Petitioner offered 
screenshots from Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for each of the 
aforementioned websites. For example, Similar Web reflects that Indie Wire. com has a global rank of 
6,730, a country rank of 2,781, and a category rank of 72. In addition, Mk.ru has a global rank of 
1,123, a country rank of 69, and a category ranking of 37. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate the significance of these Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major trade publications or other major media. 
Finally, the record does not show that any of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were 
about the Petitioner and in major media. Based on the foregoing, she has not demonstrated that she 
meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. For example, the 
Petitioner provided evidence indicating that she was a member of the judging panel for the 
(2017) hosted by the Russian program at 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation reflecting that her films were screened at 
, and the 
in New York. As such, the record supports the Director's determination that she fulfills this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on her role for her 
video production company that specializes "in documentary films, videos for non-profit organizations 
and commercials. " As founder and sole filmmaker for ___ we find that the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading and critical role for her company. 
The record includes a letter from 
at and a script writer for 
stating: and an adjunct professor 
.
Matter o/0-K-
I have been professionally involved with [the Petitioner] through for a 
number of years now, writing grants and scripts for 
and These three films in particular are indicative of [the 
Petitioner's] extraordinary ability as a filmmaker, and within the independent film 
industry, have substantially elevated the name and standing of 
While the record shows that the Petitioner has performed in a leading and critical role for 
the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that her company has a distinguished reputation in 
filmmaking, video production, or commercial advertising. For example, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the submitted published material relating to or its films sets her company apart from 
others in the industry or otherwise reflects its distinguished reputation. Similarly, the record does not 
demonstrate that the stature of the Petitioner's awards, nominations, and film festival screenings are 
such that her company has garnered a distinguished reputation as a result. 6 With regard to the 
Petitioner's awards, they have already been discussed under the regulatory criterion at 8 C .F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, while the film received various student 
awards and other honors, and was included in the "Online Film Database" of the 
and the DVD collection of the this evidence 
is not sufficient to establish that the film company 
reputation. 7 is an organization with a distinguished 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that she has performed in a leading or critical role as a film editor 
for a film and media production company. As it relates to a leading role, the 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 9 
The record includes a letter from , director and producer at 
stating that she "hired [the Petitioner] to work as an editor on a documentary film for a gala held by 
the and that this film, entitled "was the most 
popular the had ever created, resulting in a wonderful emotional response from the audience." 
In addition, indicates that she "brought [the Petitioner] onto further projects," including 
as editor of the documentary short film which she asserts "was one of only 57 films selected 
out of 4,400 entries for a World Premiere at the " However, the Petitioner did 
not show how her role as an editor for the aforementioned films reflects her leading or critical role for 
the overall production company. For instance, letter did not contain detailed and 
probative information that specificall y addressed how the Petitioner's editorial role was leading or 
critical for the organization. 10 Moreover, did not explain how the Petitioner's role was 
6 See users Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of 
"distinguished " as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
7 For instance, the DVD collection of the identifies the "School of Visual Arts" rather 
than 
8 See users Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
io Id. 
.
Matter o/0-K-
leading compared to the other crew on the film such as its director and producers, nor did her 
statements indicate that the Petitioner's film editing was of significant importance for 
success or standing in the industry so as to demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, 
while the record includes information about from its website and evidence 
that was screened at the this documentation is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that _______ has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that she has performed in leading or critical roles as director and 
producer of and 
The Petitioner, however, has not identified how her work on these films constitutes leading or critical 
roles for "organizations or establishments," pursuant to the language of the criterion, nor has she 
demonstrated the distinguished reputation of any such entities. 11 For the above reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 N onimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USC IS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification , intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her filmmaking projects are indicative of the 
11 With respect to the production company 
reputation of this organization. as discussed above, the record does not establish the distinguished 
Matter o/0-K-
required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofO-K-, ID# 2647573 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 15, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of neurological surgery, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner had satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
he had not demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim and shown that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he has sustained 
the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofV-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as an assistant professor in the department of 
neurological surgery at The As the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi), respectively. As the record supports those 
findings, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated , by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
2 
.
Matter ofV-K-
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has shown his eligibility for this 
classification. 
The Petitioner received a Master of Science at of Public Health (2005) and a Bachelor 
of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery at (2003). His resume 
reflects he worked as a fellow in stereotactic and functional neurosurgery (2013-2015) and has worked 
as an assistant professor in the department of neurological surgery at The ______ smce 
2016. 
With respect to his scholarly articles, the Petitioner has provided evidence of his authorship of a 
considerable amount of published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished 
professional journals, as well as a book chapter. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists 
and researchers, the citation history and other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is 
an important indicator of the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether 
such influence has been sustained. In this case, the Petitioner has offered reports from Google Scholar 
and Microsoft Academic Research reflecting hundreds of citations to his published work to present, 
as well as evidence documenting that the rate at which his articles have been cited is very high for his 
field. The number of research articles he has coauthored and their unusually high rate of citation are 
commensurate with being among the small percentage at the very top of the field and demonstrate that 
his publication record sets him apart through a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. 
No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Importantly, the influence of the Petitioner's research is further evidenced through recommendation 
letters that identify his original contributions in the development of neurosurgery methods, and explain 
how those advancements have significantly impacted his field. Several letters, from both colleagues 
and independent experts, discuss the Petitioner's research advancements in the area of deep brain 
stimulation surgery, including his work relating to electrode placement and the use of anesthetics in 
such surgeries. For example, at The 
describes the Petitioner's findings on improving the accuracy of targeted electrode placement as 
"nothing short of a breakthrough in [Deep Brain Stimulation] surgery," and discusses outside interest 
and communications the Petitioner has received regarding the use of his tractography-based method 
for ultrasound surgery. Similarly, of 
School, attests that the Petitioner's findings on tractography-based targeting 
"have helped to create a new paradigm in the field of neurosurgery," and states that his "research has 
garnered a substantial amount of attention throughout the wider scientific community." 
also describes specific examples of how the Petitioner's methods and findings in this research have 
been used by several research teams at various institutions. 
In addition, a professor and chair of the neurological surgery department at the 
contends that the Petitioner has provided "invaluable 
information regarding the anesthetics used during [deep brain stimulation] surgery" and identified how 
"dexmedetomidine changes the bursting pattern of neurons, increasing the risk that the electrode is 
placed improperly , leading to dire consequences for the patient." Likewise , a 
professor at _______ states that the Petitioner 's research "greatly advanced the quest for 
3 
.
Matter ofV-K-
an ideal anesthetic agent" in deep brain stimulation surgery, and attests to the important clinical 
applications of his findings. 
Beyond the Petitioner's past contributions, we note that the record reflects significant interest relating 
to his current research investigating and improving the use of 
as a non-surgical alternative treatment for disorders such as Parkinson's disease and 
epilepsy. In addition to letters discussing the significance of this work, the record includes media 
coverage of the clinical trials that the Petitioner is leading. This attention regarding the Petitioner's 
ongoing work further contributes to a finding that he has sustained acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
With regard to his participation as a judge of others' work, the record indicates that the Petitioner has 
reviewed over 50 manuscripts for a large number of renowned professional publications, served as a 
member of the editorial board for and reviewed grant proposals 
for the We find the Petitioner's extensive judging experience, 
together with the achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination that he is among 
the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the record includes ample documentary evidence supporting the aforementioned independent 
references' statements regarding the Petitioner's standing in the field and the significance and 
originality of his work. In addition to the extensive number of citations to his articles, he provides 
documentation showing that his work has received significant attention and is being utilized by other 
research organizations. In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability. The 
totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding 
that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has documented 
sustained acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § l36l;Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&NDec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained . 
Cite as Matter ofV-K-, ID# 02070834 (AAO Apr. 15, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
field of natural language processing and speech communication. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets an additional criterion, relating to making original 
contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). He maintains that he 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's resume and other documents indicate that he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree 
in applied informatics in 2007, and has worked as a research associate and a research assistant 
professor at the The Director concluded that he met the 
participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly 
articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record supports this conclusion. 
Specifically, the Petitioner has offered letters from publications including IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, and the Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing 
Research, which are professional publications, confirming that he served as one of their manuscript 
reviewers. In addition, evidence confirms that he has authored scholarly articles that were published 
in professional journals, including 
that appeared in the Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, and 
that appeared in Magnetic Resonance in Medicine . While he has satisfied two criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), as we will discuss below, he has not met the initial evidence 
requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 1 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentat ion that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
.
.Matter of A-T-
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to 
the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: //www. uscis. gov/sites/ defaul t/fil es/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evi dence-pm-6002-00 5-
1. pdf. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, he claims that he meets this criterion 
because he has authored scholarly articles, other scientists have cited to and relied on his work, he has 
presented his findings in international conferences, and he has submitted letters from other scientists 
praising his research. 
The Petitioner's written work, citation frequency, and conference presentations are insufficient to 
satisfy this criterion. The record includes reference letters and other documentation showing that he 
has published articles and a book chapter in reputable publications, as well as shared his research in 
international conferences. For example, a professor of electrical and computer 
engineering at the indicates that the Petitioner's "discoveries 
have been published in prestigious international journals" and that he has "been invited to present his 
landmark work at many national and international symposiums." Such evidence verifies that the 
Petitioner has shared his research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from 
the field upon the dissemination of his work confirms that the value of his research rises to the level 
of"contributions of major significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). "[P]eer-reviewed 
presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be 
probative of the significance of the alien's contributions to the field of endeavor." USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout from Google Scholar, showing that his most cited article, 
published in 2014, garnered 60 citations, and his second most cited article, published in 2017, received 
26 citations. He claims that he has authored over 60 scholarly articles that have been cited 
approximately 360 times by others. He has not demonstrated the accuracy of this citation frequenc y, 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigrat ion Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4. 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-
which originates from Google Scholar. For example, he has not explained how Google Scholar tallies 
the citations or if its information is reliable. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation 
frequency, assuming it is accurate, confirms that his work has provoked widespread commentary or 
received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of major 
significance in the field." Although he has submitted some examples of other scientists citing to and 
relying on his research, he has not sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in 
the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant way. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
While the record includes a number of reference letters, they do not sufficiently demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). According to a professor at the Speech-Language-Hearing 
Sciences Laboratory at the 
the Petitioner's "research has forged new ground in the field ... with cutting edge research in acoustic 
modeling and audiovisual speech synthesis." a professor of phonetics at the 
in France, states that the Petitioner's "expert background as a 
researcher in natural language processing and speech communication has given him an enhanced 
understanding of developing sophisticated and highly accurate acoustic models." a 
professor oflinguistics at the provides that his studies "on dynamic 
articulatory data ... to animate sophisticated articulatory models have gained considerable traction 
among fellow researchers" and that he has "contributed to the development and improvement of 
protocols for the dynamic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the vocal tract." 
a professor at the School of Engineering of the notes that the 
Petitioner's work "is of incredible interdisciplinary importance to researchers in the diverse fields 
spanning computational modeling, machine learning, and speech-language pathology" and that he is 
"an outstanding researcher" whose work has been published in "leading scientific journals." 
The reference letters in the record, including those not specifically mentioned above, discuss the 
Petitioner's research, publication, and conference activities, and conclude, based on these endeavors, 
that he has satisfied the criterion. As explained, dissemination of one's scientific findings in 
publications or conferences is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Rather, the Petitioner must show 
that his work has resulted in widespread commentary or acceptance in the field, or its impact has 
otherwise risen to the level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 
602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Some of the letters claim that the Petitioner has advanced the field. For example, 
a professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department of the 
indicates that the Petitioner "has helped move the field of 
acoustic modeling forward by incrementally refining the components of speech production systems 
toward the generation of highly natural, intelligible , and personalized speech acoustics, which has 
vastly contributed to the understanding of more nuanced and finer details of the speech production 
process." This and other letters also state that scientists in the field have cited to and relied on the 
Petitioner 's work. The letters, however, are insufficient to confirm that his impact or influence in the 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-
field has risen to the level of "major significance." See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that 
"letters from physics professors attesting to [ a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient 
to meet this criterion). The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his work -which may have resulted 
in incremental advancements in the field, as such are expected in any original research -qualifies as 
contributions of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, 
supra, at 8-9 ("Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The reference letters and other evidence in the record show that the Petitioner's work has added to the 
general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, insufficient to confirm widespread 
commentary or acceptance of his findings, that the field has regarded his work as authoritative, or that 
his studies have advanced the field in a significant way. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently 
explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was involved in studies that were funded by well­
known entities. For example, documentation shows that he was a scientist who worked on a research 
on the dynamics of vocal tract shaping that was funded by the and that 
he subsequently published an article based on his work. It does not appear that he has ever been 
specifically listed as a grant recipient. Regardless, receiving funding to conduct research, without 
more, is not a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that 
receiving grants or other similar funding are reflective of his past works' major significance, or that 
his research conducted with the funding resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. 
He has not made such a showing. Accordingly, based on the evidence in the record, he has not shown, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, because he did 
not demonstrate that he, as a research scientist or research associate, has performed a leading or critical 
role for his current and former employers. On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically challenge 
the Director's finding. Rather, he claims that his work has impacted the 
at the , and that he "has 
assumed a leading role in the critical research initiatives. " 
To satisfy this criterion, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner is or was a leader. See USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. If the Petitioner claims to have performed a critical 
role, then he must establish that the role is or was of significant importance to the outcome or standing 
of the organization or its activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the Petitioner 's 
5 
.
Matter of A-T-
performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title of the Petitioner's role, but 
rather his performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. Id 
The record does not include sufficient documentation, such as letters from individuals managing 
explaining the Petitioner's role or how his role is or was leading or critical. The Petitioner has 
not offered corroborating evidence confirming that he has held a leadership position within or 
is responsible for duties that make him a leader, or that he has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome or standing of While most individuals involved with an 
organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role, a petitioner must document 
that his or her work is crucial to the success of the entity. The Petitioner has not made such a showing 
here. Based on these reasons, he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofSkirballCulturalCtr. , 25 I&NDec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-, ID# 2759914 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dentist in public health, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she only met one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of A-M-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
A Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Petitioner is a dentist in public health. As an initial matter, the Director held that the Petitioner 
had not established that she intended to continue working in her field of expertise as a dentist, as stated 
on the petition, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), noting that the record indicated that she was currently 
employed as an adjunct assistant professor at The Director noted that 
in response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted an amended petition, indicating 
that her job title is as a dentist in public health. The Director also noted that in a subsequent RFE 
response, the Petitioner submitted a job offer from to be a full-time clinical instructor, 
indicating that she would be employed part-time at her dental practice. The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner had not established that she intended to support herself principally as a dentist. On 
appeal, the Petitioner first highlights the distinction between being a dentist and a dentist in public 
health, noting that the latter allows her to supervise dental students in clinical practice, conduct 
research on oral health disparities, and implement free clinics for _____ underserved 
populations. 
We note that the Petitioner 's statement accompanying the petition indicates that her field is dentistry 
in public health and then in her first RFE response, she cites the American Dental Association (ADA) 
definition of "dental public health" as "that part of dentistry providing leadership and expertise in 
population-based dentistry, oral health surveillance , policy development , community-based disease 
prevention and health promotion , and the maintenance of the dental safety net." In a more detailed 
statement submitted with the petition, the Petitioner states that she plans to take over the management 
of a particular dental practice, further expanding the private practice "to focus on providing holistic 
care that incorporates the principles [she has] mastered in public health and epidemiology. " 
2 
.
Matter of A-M-
We find that this statement sufficiently meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(5) which allows 
the petitioner to submit a statement "detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her 
work in the United States." Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding in this regard and conclude 
that the Petitioner has met this requirement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must 
demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) but that she did not meet the requirements for membership under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), or 
leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she 
meets these criteria. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has 
not established that she satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director held that the record contained evidence of the Petitioner's membership in one association 
and society and evidence that she received a certification as a consultant, but that this documentation 
was insufficient to meet this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner states that her membership in the 
meets the requirements of this criterion, particularly when 
viewed from the perspective of her field as a dentist in public health. The record contains a letter from 
director of the office of the trustees and fellowship affairs of the confirming 
the Petitioner's membership in the academy. states that "Academy Fellows and 
Members are distinguished professionals in medical and health professions and other disciplines 
affecting health, who embody the highest levels of achievement and leadership in urban health, elected 
by their peers." The record contains two pages from the website regarding membership in the 
academy, which states that "[p]rofessionals who have completed their graduate training or have 
completed graduate education and certifications as appropriate to their health care related field ... are 
eligible for Membership." This document then states that "[t]hey shall show evidence of performance 
or outstanding potential in one or several of the health professional's roles of practitioner, teacher, 
scientist, researcher, administrator or citizen." Here, we note that while membership requirements are 
based on "outstanding potential," this criterion requires outstanding achievements that have already 
occurred, rather than based on prospective events. The evidence in the record does not establish that 
being a "distinguished professional " who is elected by one's peers meets this criterion, which requires 
"outstanding achievements " for membership. Furthermore , the record lacks evidence showing that 
membership in was "judged by recognized national or international experts" in the field. T 
The Petitioner also claims that her membership from the 
establishes the requirements of this criterion. Although the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner 's certification as a consultant in this organization does not constitute membership , we note 
3 
.
Matter of A-M-
that the certificate in the record from the indicates that she is a member of this society. 
However, the record does not demonstrate what the requirements are for membership in the 
organization. The Petitioner submitted a webpage from which identifies the requirements for 
certification in clinical hypnosis, indicating that an applicant must "[h]old at least a master's degree 
in a health care discipline" and have licensure in the state where they practice; be a member of a 
professional society consistent with the degree, have a minimum number of hours of "approved 
workshop training" and "individualized training;" and have at least "two years of independent practice 
utilizing clinical hypnosis." These requirements appear to be for certification rather than 
membership, and even if they did correlate with membership, the requirements are focused on an 
applicant's education and training and do not demonstrate that membership is based on outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The record reflects that 
she has reviewed a manuscript for the journal Modern Research in Dentistry, which is sufficient to meet 
the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. She 
must demonstrate that her contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. She must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). 
The Director indicated that the letters of recommendation the Petitioner submitted are insufficient to 
meet the requirements of this criterion. In addition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had 
presented her work at conferences, but he concluded that this does not show original contributions, 
indicating that there is no way to determine the originality of the paper or its influence on the field. 
He further stated that the Petitioner had not submitted extensive documentation showing that her work 
has been "unusually influential , highly acclaimed at the national or international level, or has otherwise 
risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field." Here, we note that the 
requirement of showing "sustained national or international acclaim" is a consideration for the final 
merits analysis, as this criterion does not require that the Petitioner 's work has been "highly acclaimed 
at the national or international level." Rather, the Petitioner must show that her original contributions 
are of major significance in the field by demonstrating the influence they have had on the field. 
4 
.
Matter of A-M-
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion for her contributions to 
program, which won the award. On appeal, she states that this award is "the 
preeminent forum for recognizing contributions made to oral health and dental education." She adds 
that while this award was specifically given to she made original contributions of major 
significance to the organization which led it to receive this award, citing a letter from 
and the former executive director of the program. states that the 
Petitioner served as the clinical director at the program and that 
before she joined the unit, it was restricted to providing only oral screening to children, as it could not 
provide nitrous oxide to relax children. He adds that "[the Petitioner] ingeniously implemented 
clinical hypnosis into the treatment of the children and that enabled her team to provide comprehensive 
dental care without the need of nitrous oxide." He then indicates that through this implementation of 
hypnosis, "patient visits to the mobile dental health center steadily increased," noting that she 
"expanded the program to include foster agencies in the 
further states that "[the Petitioner's] role with the program had additional ripple 
effects through noting that cavities "were significantly reduced in the 
pediatric population which in turn reduced emergency room visits and thereby unburdened 
the hospital." The letter describes effects on and its immediate vicinity, but does 
not identify what impact, if any, the Petitioner's contributions have had on the field. The Petitioner 
has not shown how her contributions within the program have impacted the field as a whole 
to equate to contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also notes the student-run 
free dental clinic in which dental students see patients under the Petitioner's supervision and provided 
free dental screenings and oral hygiene instruction to underserved individuals. While this is notable 
work the Petitioner has provided within the community, she has not established what her original 
contributions are to this clinic or how her role overseeing the students' work represents contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The record contains letters from individuals in the Petitioner's field, attesting to her initiatives in 
providing dental care for children in underserved areas. An agency "may, in its discretion, use as 
advisory opinions statements ... submitted in evidence as expert testimony," but it is ultimately 
responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit 
sought. Matter of Caron Int'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). Here, we conclude that 
these letters do not demonstrate that her original contributions have significantly impacted the field to 
equate to contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a letter from 
professor and chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management at 
discusses the Petitioner 's work overseeing the free dental clinic which serves 300 to 400 homeless 
people in annually, stating how uncommon it is for a dentist to also have expertise in 
public health and epidemiology. While this may be uncommon , the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner 's specialty in these fields amounts to original contributions of major significance in the 
field. Letters from colleagues that do not specifically identify contributions or detail how those 
5 
.
Matter of A-M-
contributions have influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036: aff d 
in part 596 F.3d 1115. Similarly, the record contains other letters from professionals in the field, 
attesting to her work in expanding dental care to populations in need in but she has 
not established that her original contributions have significantly impacted the field as a whole to 
constitute contributions of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 1 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 2 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not shown that she was responsible for any organizations' 
success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of "leading or critical role." On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that she meets this criterion for her role as the clinical director of the 
program, citing the letter from 
appears to be incorrect as 
at the 
program. as discussed above. However, this characterization 
letter indicates that the Petitioner was the "clinical director 
program" as opposed to the clinical director of the entire 
While the evidence in the record establishes the distinguished reputation of the 
College of Dental Medicine, the Petitioner has not shown that her role in the organization amounts to 
a critical role. states that he "worked for the of Dental 
Medicine from 1988-2015 in a variety of leadership positions including Executive Director of its 
award winning program until 2015." In discussing the Petitioner's role as the clinical 
director of the program's ___ states that her implementation of clinical 
hypnosis into treatment for children allowed her team to transition from only conducting screenings 
to being able to provide "comprehensive dental care without the need of nitrous oxide," noting that as 
a result "patient visits to the mobile dental health center steadily increased" and that she "expanded 
the program to include foster agencies in the states that the Petitioner also 
implemented a new method of managing the operations of the which "translated 
into more patient visits and revenue," leading to a surplus that they were able to redirect into other 
communi ty programs at While this has had a positive influence on the 
communi ty, the Petitione r has not shown how her role was of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization 's activities. 
1 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005. 1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis.gov/sites/default/fi les/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i -l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1. pdf. 
2 Id. 
.
Matter of A-M-
The record contains a 2014 News Medical article about the award given to 
that quotes who states, "[t]hrough our public school-based clinics and 
enables us to extend oral health care to thousands of 
individuals every year who otherwise might not have access to care." The article later states, 
has established eight school-based dental clinics, and the program's 
van visits more than 80 locations throughout and the 
offering comprehensive dental care to children ages 3-5." While we note that the Petitioner has served 
as the clinical director of the of the program, this appears to be just 
one of the other dental clinics that make up The Petitioner has not shown how 
leading one of these dental clinics is of such significant importance to the outcome of the organization 
or establishment's activities that it constitutes a critical role. 
The Petitioner also notes the student-run 
free dental clinic in which dental students see patients under the Petitioner's supervision and provided 
free dental screenings and oral hygiene instruction to underserved individuals. While this is notable 
work that the Petitioner provides within the community, she has not established that this organization 
has a distinguished reputation or that her role was of significant importance to the outcome of its 
activities. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements for this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-M-, ID# 2248437 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-Y-K-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an artist and art teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the 
initial evidentiary criteria: display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects, for example, that her work was displayed at exhibitions in 
Russia entitled 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the display criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that she meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented her membership card for the 
of Russia and this organization's bylaws. Section 3 .1 of bylaws states: 
can be professional painters, graphic artists, sculptors, masters of decorative 
and applied art, photo artists, designers, architects, art historians, gallery and museum workers, 
journalists, other persons who have professional interests in the field of culture and art that have 
reached the age of 14 .... " In addition, section 3.2 indicates: "Membership in the is voluntary. 
Individuals are admitted to the membership of the on the basis of personal appeal in 
writing." The record also includes a document entitled 
explaining that those seeking membership must complete a questionnaire 
and provide a photograph, an autobiography, and information about their work, "including a list of 
exhibitions, catalogues, publications, reproductions of 5-10 works for different periods of creativity." 
This document further states that "[r]ecommendations from museums and galleries will also be 
useful." The aforementioned information, however, is not sufficient to demonstrate that reqmres 
"outstanding achievements" of its members pursuant to the language of this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted the ' a description of the rating 
categories, a list of members of the and an August 2017 
certificate from the chairman of• assigning her an artistic rating of "SB (a formed professional 
artist)." The description of the rating categories the Petitioner provided states: 
I -an artist of the world fame, tested with time (for more than a century), IA-a world 
famous artist, IB - a high-class professional artist with remarkable organizational 
skills, who is popular and in demand. 
2A - a high-class professional artist with a bright creative individuality, 2B - a high­
class professional artist, recognized and in demand with the art-market and public. 
3A-a professional artist with a recognizable individual style, 3B - a professional artist, 
recognized and asked for in the art market and by the public. 
4A -an established professional artist with creative potential, 4B -an established 
professional artist, who is in demand in the art market. 
SA - a professional artist with creative potential, SB - a formed professional artist. 
The remaining categories are "6A-an artist with creative potential, 6B - a forming professional artist, 
7 -an amateur artist with perspective evaluation of specialists , 8 -an amateur artist, 9 -an artist­
beginner, [and] 10 -an artist-scholar." The record, however, does not show that the Petitioner's "SB" 
"formed professional artist" rating rises to the level of outstanding achievements. 1 Nor has the 
Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that applicants ' achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets this criterion. 
1 We note that the description of rating categories includes multiple levels above the Petitioner's "SB" rating that reflect 
higher levels of artistic achievement. 
3 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted various letters of support discussing her work 
as an artist and teacher. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of support from 
colleagues in the field and an expert in Russian legal matters were insufficient to meet this criterion. 2 
However, as discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the 
record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original 
contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major 
significance. 
With regard to the Petitioner's artwork, chairman of the branch of the 
, contended that she has achieved "success in the field of visual arts" and 
that "she can create her artworks in many different ways and on different media -canvas, glass, stone." 
In addition, asserted that the Petitioner's "technique of making paintings on the glass is 
of the greatest interest since it is unique and unrepeatable." Likewise, a Russian 
teacher-psychologist and poet, stated: "[The Petitioner] has created a huge amount of artworks. I 
especially want to mention the paintings that are made on the surface of glass. To create them you 
need concentration, attention to color separation, love of animals and great patience." While 
and praised the creativity of the Petitioner's glass paintings, the evidence is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that her artwork rises to the level of contributions of major significance in 
the field. For instance, the record does not show that the Petitioner's art has influenced other 
professionals in the visual arts fields, that any of her specific works are widely viewed as important 
pieces of contemporary art, or that her original work otherwise constitutes artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Furthermore , the record contains letters from several educators discussing supplementary arts training 
programs taught by the Petitioner at their schools. For example, deputy of the general 
director at . a network of kindergarten schools in Russia, asserted that 
the Petitioner ''conducted master classes on the theme 'Artistic development of children, Open talent 
in every child" for that company 's staff and that her training helped teachers "increase the interest of 
children in the art classes." Similarly , director of College of Small Business · 
indicated that "classes conducted by artist [the Petitioner] allowed college students to 
2 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
improve their skills and abilities to improve their academic performance" and "to consolidate their 
skills in composition, drawing and color separation." 
In addition, an English teacher at Public School in 
stated that the Petitioner "conducted free courses as a volunteer on additional art education for children 
from 6 to 10 years old in the Public School and that her program combined "classical art 
school and modern technology." further noted that this program helped children 
to "significantly improve the grades of academic achievement in common subjects at school." Another 
educator at that school, indicated that the Petitioner taught fine arts to disadvantaged 
children and that her program helped children with learning disabilities to improve their academic 
performance. 
The record also includes a letter from a attorney, explaining that "obtaining a 
license for [the Petitioner's] supplementary education program in the Russian Federation is not 
required." further stated that it was legal for Russian schools to use the Petitioner's 
"educational programs without payment."3 
The statements and information from the aforementioned educators and Russian legal expert, however, 
are not sufficient to show that her art programs have widely influenced the field beyond the schools 
where she taught or have otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original contributions be "of 
major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting her students and their schools' arts 
programs. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had 
not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without 
sufficient evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on her former role as Head of Design and 
Deputy of General Director for . a Russian company that designs automated teller 
machines (ATMs) and customer-activated terminals. For the reasons discussed below, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical 
role for or that this organization has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding 
3 The Petitioner provided this letter in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) under this criterion asking for 
"Contracts with companies using [the Petitioner's] products" and "Licensed technology being used by others." We note, 
however, that the aforementioned types of evidence were only two examples among many listed in the RFE for this 
criterion. The Director's RFE did not limit the Petitioner regarding the types of evidence she could present under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
4 See users Policy Memorandum See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-
5 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 5 
The record includes the Petitioner's "Book of Employment History" identifying the various jobs she 
has held in Russia since 1992. Pages 10-11 of this book list her position as "Deputy of General 
Director: The Head of Design Department" for but do not describe her specific 
duties. In addition, while the Petitioner offered a letter from the event director at , a 
client of expressing gratitude for "the design decisions" she made on projects as leader 
of her company's team of designers, this letter does not show how her role leading various design 
projects for was leading or critical role for The Petitioner also submitted 
a list of her job duties as "Head of Design Department" for Although the Petitioner 
contends that this list was "obtained from the employment contract with job description," she did not 
provide a copy of the aforementioned employment contract containing that list. Nor has 
she presented a letter from containing detailed and probative information that specifically 
addresses how her role was leading or critical for that organization. 6 Furthermore, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that such a letter from her former employer is unavailable. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(g)(l). For these reasons, the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading or critical role for 
In addition to not demonstrating that she performed in a leading or critical role for the 
evidence is insufficient to show that this organization has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner 
presented multiple letters of appreciation from clients thanking the company for 
developing signage and displays for their ATMs and bank branches. For example, an April 2009 letter 
from the Deputy of General Director for the Department of Banking Technologies at an 
exclusive distributor of , expressed gratitude for "joint participation in the 
presentation of ATMs at the for banks." In addition, the Petitioner offered 
lists of the largest banks in Europe and Russia, and noted that several of these banks were 
clients. She also provided a November 2006 letter from stating that 
radio stations "Europe Plus" and "Retro FM" announced news "about the realization by the company 
of the project on creation of self-service banking zones across Russia by the order 
of the The record, however, does not include the transcripts of these radio stations' 
news announcements to demonstrate that their coverage was indicative of the company's distinguished 
reputation. Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted information about from its website, 
but USCIS need not rely on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, 
aff'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). The aforementioned information and evidence is not sufficient to 
set apart from others in the industry or otherwise reflect its distinguished reputation. 7 
For the above reasons, the Petitione r has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
14 l 0 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://vvww.uscis. gov/policymanual/HTML/Po licyManua l.html. 
5/d. 
6 Id. (noting that "8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) states that evidence of experience 'shall' consist of letters from employers"). 
7 Id. (defining Merriam -Webster's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence). 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner initially presented documentation from the Federal Tax Service of Russia reflecting her 
earnings as "Deputy of General Director: The Head of Design Department" for in 2010 
and 2011. In addition, she submitted information showing average monthly "wages of employees in 
a full range of organizations in general" for the Russian Federation and average salary levels "for the 
position Deputy General Director in Russia."8 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence 
showing that she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in 
her field and not just a salary that is above average in her field. Furthermore, because the Petitioner's 
field is art design, offering "wages of employees in a full range of organizations in general" for the 
Russian Federation does not provide an appropriate basis for comparison in demonstrating that her 
earnings constitute a high salary relative to "others in the field." 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided current wage information from 
msk.jobcareer.ru indicating the "average monthly salary for position Deputy of General Director by 
region" and "average monthly salary for position Art Director in She also 
submitted a letter from discussing the "forms used to confirm an individual's income in 
Russian Federation," how wages are "calculated at commercial organizations in Russia," and "[h]ow 
to determine the official salary for positions ... in Russian Federation" in comparison with "similar 
statistic[s] in the United States." In addition, asserted that "the amount of annual income 
received ... by 'Deputy of General Director, Head of Design Department' ... is significantly higher 
than the average wage for this position in Russia, as well as in or m region." 
The Petitioner's reliance on average salary information compiled from current job openings is not a 
proper basis for comparison. First, she must provide evidence showing that she has earned a high 
salary relative to others in the field rather than just a salary that is above average in her field. Second, 
the salary information she offered from msk.jobcareer.ru is limited to job vacancies and excludes data 
for filled positions. Furthermore, the information from msk.jobcareer.ru relates to current job 
openings rather than those from 2010 and 2011 when the Petitioner worked as head of the design 
department at 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers) ; Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the wage information she presented constitutes an appropriate basis for 
comparison. Based on the foregoing , the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
8 The Petitioner did not demonstrate that deputy general director positions are indistinguishable in Russia, such that salaries 
are consistent regardless of the field of endeavor. 
Matter of V-Y-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her art and design work are indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-Y-K-, ID# 2731295 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a travel agency director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits further documentation and a brief, arguing that he fulfills three of 
the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofS-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a travel agency director for in Georgia. Because he has 
not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three criteria, discussed below. 1 We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on a 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a letter from co-
founder and managing partner of _ , who indicated that 
participated as a nominee at the first ever held ceremony in 2015 for the category, 
1 Although he previously claimed to meet the membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 3)(ii), the Petitioner indicates 
that he "misunderstood the requirement[s] for this section" and his "membership does not require outstanding 
achievement[s] to become a member." As the Petitioner concedes his ineligibilit y, we will not further address this issue. 
2 
.
Matter ofS-K-
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive a rather, the company, 
finished as a finalist. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that 
the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's 
receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that finishing as a finalist, 
as opposed to winning the award, is tantamount to a prize or award for excellence consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. Moreover, although the Petitioner provides evidence reflecting the purpose and 
background of the awards, the Petitioner did not show that the 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on an article posted on georgianjournal.ge and 
georgiatoday.ge. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material. 4 
While the article mentions the Petitioner as being the founder of the article is about the 
tourism company. 5 Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 6 Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
include the required author of the material. Furthermore, while the Petitioner provides screenshots 
from Similar Web showing that georgianjournal.ge has a global ranking of 327,968, a country ranking 
of 1,181, and total visits of"l35.90K," and georgiatoday.ge has a global ranking of 681,905, a country 
ranking of 3,427, and total visits of "68.35K," the Petitioner did not show the significance of the 
rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such information reflects status as major media. 7 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 The record also contains a transcription for a television commercial. However , the advertisement is about 
the company rather than about the Petitioner. See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing 
that marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the Petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are 
not generally considered to be published material about him). 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated) . 
7 Id. (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
3 
.
Matter ofS-K-
Because he did not establish that his evidence meets the eligibility requirements, the Petitioner does 
not satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's organization of a site inspection tour for to 
in 2016 did not show how his role was leading or critical. In addition, the Petitioner determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that enjoys a distinguished reputation. On appeal, 
the Petitioner argues that he did not organize one tour but "worked to gain a partnership in that 
allowed access to Georgia so that they could take advantage of the demand from 
Georgian and International tourists in Georgia wanting to go to ' Further, the Petitioner submits 
a letter from managing director for . who stated that the Petitioner 
"had cooperated with our company before" and "had organized a site inspection tour to in 2016 
of the different VIP Travel Agencies from Georgia and was their group leader." 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 9 
Although letter confirms the Petitioner's involvement with , it does 
not demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role for the tour company. 
did not explain how the Petitioner's organization of a one-time site inspection tour reflects a leading 
role to overall. Moreover, while claimed that the Petitioner "played 
a critical role" and listed other tour agencies he brought along and hotels that were inspected, she did 
not further elaborate to show how his organized tour contributed to the successes of or 
resulted in increased visitors. Here, the letter does not establish that he held a leading position, and it 
does not contain specific information signifying that he was essential to the tour company. 10 In 
addition, the Petitioner did not address, nor does the record reflect, that ____ enJoys a 
distinguished reputation.11 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner 's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
11 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merrian-Webster 's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
4 
Matter ofS-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite asMatter ofS-K-, ID# 2757688 (AAO Apr. 17, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-W-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in spa design and wellness. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the managing director for a spa concept and design firm. Because she 
has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying 
the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record reflects 
that the Petitioner served as a judge for the in 2010 and performed in a leading or 
critical role for her company. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner demonstrated 
that she met the judging and leading or critical role criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author of 
the material. 1 The Petitioner contends that she provided 28 articles that meet this criterion. The record, 
however, reflects that only four of the articles contain published material about the Petitioner relating 
to her work in the field. The remaining articles are about the Petitioner's company, 
Although some of these articles mention the Petitioner's name and reference her quotes, they are about 
the company and its spa-related projects. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 2 
Further, as it relates to the four articles mentioned above, the Petitioner did not include the required 
author for one of the articles (lifeandstyle.com). While the Petitioner claimed that the author was a 
"Staff Interviewer," she did not specifically identify the author of the material. 3 
In addition to lifeandstyle.com, one article was posted on wellnesstoday.com and two articles were 
published in Asia Spa. Regarding lifeandstyle.com, the Petitioner provided "About Us" screenshots 
and claimed that the "[c]ompany does not reveal" circulation numbers. Likewise, the Petitioner 
offered an "About Us" screenshot from wellnesstoday.com reflecting an affiliation with the Institute 
for Integrative Nutrition (IIN) and a screenshot from integrativenutritition.com stating that IIN "has 
provided a global learning experience for 100,000 students and graduates in over 150 countries 
worldwide." Moreover, as it relates to Asia Spa, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
bluincmedia.com indicating a circulation of 62,000. On appeal, the Petitioner presents screenshots 
from bluincmedia.com asserting that Blu Inc. Media is "[t]he leading luxury publication group in 
Asia." 
The record, however, does not demonstrate that the magazine and two websites are professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. Without circulation or viewing statistics, the Petitioner 
has not shown that lifeandstyle.com and wellnesstoday.com are regarded as major media. 4 In addition, 
the screenshot from integrativenutritition.com relates to IIN rather than the medium status of 
wellnesstoday.com. Finally, while Asia Spa claims that it has a circulation of 62,000, the Petitioner 
did not show the significance of the figures or explain how such numbers represent major trade 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. (providing that the published material should be about the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just 
about his or her employer or another organization with whom he or she is associated) . 
3 Similarly , the Petitioner did not sufficiently identify the authors of six other articles by indicating the author as the "Staff 
Writer" or "Staff Interviewer. " 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
publication status. Moreover, the screenshots from bluincmedia.com relate to Blu Inc. Media but do 
not show Asia Spa's standing as a major trade publication. 5 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that her evidence fulfills the eligibility requirements, she did 
not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that her meets this criterion. In order to 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For example, 
a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether she 
has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner submits a copy of presentation and indicates that her concept 
was reported by cladglobal.com. Although the article states that has come up with a new 
child-specific spa concept," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that an article covering an idea shows 
that the field views it as being majorly significant. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
reporting on the Petitioner's design by a single website is indicative of an original contribution of 
major significance in the field. For instance, she did not show that her spa concept resulted in 
widespread coverage and interest in major publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her spa concept was "embraced by 
and and 
references the design contract, letter of appointment, photographs of the finished spas, and a Twitter 
page from advertising the spa. While at least two entities have incorporated the 
Petitioner's spa design in their hotels/resorts, she did not establish that the overall field views her 
concept as a contribution of major significance. The Petitioner, for instance, did not show that her spa 
design has been widely implemented or highly influenced the greater field. 7 
Similarly, the Petitioner references a previously submitted e-mail from senior director of 
design and construction for , requesting a seminar to 
discuss her spa presentation. Moreover, the Petitioner presents a letter from who stated that 
5 Likewise , while the Petitioner provided circulation and readership numbers for the other publications and websites, as 
well as background information for the publishing companies , she did not explain the relevance of the figures or show how 
such statistics demonstrate status as major trade publications or other major media. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
7 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
4 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
the [] has the greatest ability to impact the future [emphasis added] of spa design 
that caters to the kids" and "would [ emphasis added] set apart a brand such as in the 
wellness facility/luxury hotel sector." Here, speculated on the potential influence and on the 
possibility of being majorly significant at some point in the future. However, did not explain 
how the spa design already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than a 
prospective impact. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not e>..'Plain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Matter of A-W-L-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-W-L-, ID# 2752470 (AAO Apr. 17, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 22, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give proper consideration to the submitted 
evidence, and that the translation certificates it submitted were compliant with the regulations. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of V-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011), aff'd, 683 F.3d. 
1030 (9th Cir. 2012); Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) (holding that the "truth 
is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality" and that U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) examines "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, 
and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine 
whether the fact to be proven is probably true"). Accordingly, where a petitioner submits qualifying 
evidence under at least three criteria, we will determine whether the totality of the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3) states the following regarding the translation of 
foreign-language documents: 
(3) Translations. Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall 
be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified 
as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent 
to translate from the foreign language into English. 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets eight of the ten 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find the she has not met the 
requisite three criteria, which will be explained in detail below. 
The Director's decision primarily focused on the lack of proper certifications which accompanied the 
English translations of much of the evidence in the record. The Petitioner 's original submission 
included several documents submitted in support of several of the evidentiary criteria, such as letters, 
published articles and related information , followed by translations which include a seal which states 
"Official Translator " as well as a signature. In addition, an attestation from an Albanian notary 
followed some of these translations and contained the following statement: 
Today, on 03 August 2016 I, the undersigned notary [notary's name] with the premises 
m declare that the translation of the attached document from Albanian into 
2 
.
Matter of V-P-
English from the English translator [translator's name] is the best of my knowledge and 
belief a true and a faithful rendering of the original language, and I the Notary certify 
it pursuant the law. 
In his request for evidence (RFE) to the Petitioner, the Director explicitly stated that the translations 
were not compliant with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3), since they do not include a 
certification from the translator that the translations are "complete and accurate" and that he or she "is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." The Petitioner's response to the 
Director's RFE included the same translations, but with the notary's seal removed or hidden, 
accompanied by a certification from her representative in which he claims to be the author of the 
translations. Because neither the initially submitted certifications nor those submitted in response to 
the RFE were completed by the translator of the documents in Albanian, these translations are not 
compliant with the regulatory requirements. However, we will review the content of these translations 
and note any further evidentiary deficiencies in our analysis below. 
Other English translations, primarily of reference letters, include a signed stamp with the following 
statement: 
The undersigned being duly conversant in both English and Albanian languages hereby 
certify that the above is a direct translation of the statement. 
These certifications are substantially compliant with the requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3), and will therefore be considered as evidence in support of the relevant 
evidentiary criteria below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204. 5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to her receipt of the following awards: 
• First Prize, 2011 
• Best Female Interpretation, 2005 4111 Edition 
• Summer Hits 2016, 
• Public Prize, 
• Honor of the Union, 
2016 
• Certificate of Gratitude , 2014, 
• Certificate of Gratitude , 2016, 
Regarding the First Prize at the we note that the evidence consists 
of a printed certificate with the Petitioner 's name handwritten in below which is a blank line 
after the words "For the song." These deficiencies in the evidence decrease its probative value. In 
3 
.
Matter of V-P-
addition, the website information which accompanies this certificate relates to a different music 
festival, the which takes place in Bulgaria, not 
Macedonia as the certificate indicates. Other evidence relating to this evidence includes an 
interview of the Petitioner posted on a blog, http://albavipnews.blogspot.com, in which she mentions 
her participation in the in 2011 but does not mention an award, and a 
biography and a gossip news article, neither of which list an author. Given the incompleteness of the 
award certificate and the lack of verifiable supporting documentation, this evidence does not establish 
that the Petitioner received the prize or award claimed. 
Turning to the second listed certificate, the term "best female interpretation" does not clearly indicate 
whether this was a top prize at the festival, nor does the supporting evidence submitted with the 
certificate clarify this.1 An article posted on the same blog mentioned above discusses the 2013 
version of the television show, but mentions only the top prize received in that 12th 
edition, and thus does not serve to show that the prize received by the Petitioner was nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The next two certificates, for "Summer Hits 2016" and the 
, also do not indicate whether they were given as top prizes in competitions, as the 
record does not include evidence of the criteria for these awards. In addition, the YouTube and 
Facebook screenprints relating to the Summer Hits 2016 certificate do not provide information about 
the award sufficient to establish that they are nationally or internationally recognized. 
The last three certificates listed above indicate that they were given to the Petitioner for her 
participation in several festivals and other events, not only as a singer but also as a presenter and 
coordinator. This evidence does not establish that they were awarded to the Petitioner for excellence 
as a smger. 
Upon review, while the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner received some of the listed awards, 
this evidence does not show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized. Therefore 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she is a member of described as an artistic 
cultural association. The evidence includes articles which describe the activities of the association , as 
well as a letter from the head of in which she states that the 
Petitioner "has been invited to participate in international and national festivals" because of her 
"extraordinary contributions. " However, ___ does not provide details about the association 's 
1 We further note that one of the articles submitted in support of this certificate, from a blog named "ALBA VIP 
Thashetheme," includes an English translation preceded by the phrase "translated by google." As indicated in the 
Director's decision, such translations, vvithout certification from a translator, do not meet the requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(3). 
4 
.
Matter of V-P-
membership requirements, nor does the evidence include its bylaws or other governing rules which 
might state its membership requirements, or how and by whom applicants are judged. 
Also submitted was a letter from General Secretary of the 
who confirms that the Petitioner joined this group in 2017. 
does not describe any membership requirements for and an article in the record from the 
New York Daily News states that where it used to be a political organization, it is now "more of a social 
organization." The Petitioner has therefore not established that is an association for singers 
or others in the music industry, or that it requires outstanding achievements of its members. As such, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Several articles were submitted from Albanian newspapers and magazines, including Telegraf, Vajza 
e Dites, and Femra Moderne. In addition to the deficiencies in the translation certifications noted 
above, we note that some of these articles are incomplete, or do not contain the required date, author 
and/or publication information. For example, an article claimed to have been published in Telegraf 
on 2008 is missing the date and author of the material, and the original is not complete. In 
addition, some of the articles which are about the Petitioner do not relate to her work in the field but 
to personal matters such as her marital status, physical appearance and food preferences. An example 
of this is the article published in the 2006 edition of Femra Moderne, which consists of 60 
short questions and answers focusing entirely on the Petitioner's personal life versus her career as a 
smger. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not established that those articles in the record which are, at least in part, 
about her and her work as a singer were published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. The Petitioner submitted a letter from Avni Elezi, administrator of Vajza e Dites 
magazine, which states that it has a circulation of 2000, has been publishing since 2004, and is 
distributed throughout Albania. However, it did not provide comparative data to establish that when 
compared to the circulation of other publications in Albania, this magazine can be considered to 
qualify as major media. Regarding the newspaper Telegraf, the Petitioner submitted a copy of its 
webpage which indicates that it is available for sale throughout Albania, as well as a printout titled 
"telegraf.al Traffic Statistics" which indicates that the website was ranked 610th in terms of traffic 
among websites frequented by Albanians. However , the record does not include information about 
the websites of other Albanian publications to which this figure could be compared to determine if it 
qualifies as "major media." Also, the record includes a copy of the Facebook page for FemraModern e 
which indicates that it has more than 25,000 followers. As with the evidence regarding the other 
publications , this raw number is insufficient to demonstrate , by itself, that this magazine qualifies as 
"major media" as required by the plain language of this criterion. Therefore , the evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
5 
.
Matter of V-P-
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the President and Producer of the event, "where 
compete the most beautiful girls of the north Albania," who indicate that she was selected as 
chairwoman of the jury for the third edition of the event. The letter further states that the Petitioner 
was selected "so she can properly evaluate the most beautiful northern girl." This letter does not 
indicate that the contestants who were judged by the Petitioner and the rest of the jury were singers or 
worked in an allied field of specialization, or that they were judged on their work as singers. As such, 
we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner does not identify a specific original artistic contribution that she has made, but instead 
refers to evidence of her music contract and letters from others in the music industry. She refers to 
evidence of a contract with a company called which consists of a letter from the co­
owner of this company which states that she has "a management contract with our firm, for a 
unspecified time frame, valued at: 500,000 (50,000 new money),"2 but does not explain why her 
representation by a management company should be considered to be a contribution to the music 
industry. In addition, the reference letters submitted in support of this criterion discuss various aspects 
of the Petitioner's singing career, but do not provide specific information regarding her original 
contributions to the field of music or the music industry. )fthe 13th district 
of New York, states that the Petitioner has performed in his community at an international 
music festival, and opines that she has "made outstanding contributions to the field of music," but does 
not elaborate on what those contributions were. Similarly, an Albanian singer and 
songwriter, describes how he met and collaborated with the Petitioner, and describes her skills and 
talent as a performer, but does not identify a contribution she has made to the field. Also, 
a composer who has worked with the Petitioner, describes their past and continuing 
collaboration and states that she has "a good image for the public" and "brings new trends and 
positivity." While this evidence serves to verify the Petitioner 's work as a singer, it does not establish 
that she has made original contributions that have influenced other singers or otherwise been of major 
significance to the field. Therefore , it does not demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
2 We note that in addition to the deficiencies with all of the English translations noted earlier, the translation of the letter 
from adds text which is not in the original document. It cannot therefore be accepted as a complete and 
accurate translation from Albanian into English. 
.
Matter of V-P-
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204. 5(h)(3)(viii) 
In support of her assertion that she has played a critical role for establishments in Albania, the 
Petitioner refers to letters which verify her work with and 
television. Vice Director of states that she is a "regular collaborator" and 
"is a participant" in many programs, including and However, this letter 
does not specify the Petitioner's role in these programs, nor does it indicate that her participation was 
critical to any success they may have enjoyed. Similarly, a letter from verifies the 
Petitioner's title and salary at , but does not provide details about her employment or indicate 
that she played a critical role for the establishment as a whole. Accordingly, this evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The record includes the following evidence regarding the Petitioner's earnings: 
• Letter from of stating that the Petitioner works as a 
musical producer from 2001 to 2016, earning 1,000 euros per month 
• Letter from of stating that the Petitioner "has a 
management contract with our firm, for a unspecified time frame, valued at: 500,000 (50,000 
new money.)" 
• Webpage article that mentions that some producers are singers. 
• Webpage article from www.paylab.com indicating that the average salary in Albania is 53,950 
ALL. The Petitioner highlights an entry under "Arts & Culture" which indicates a salary of 
913,232 ALL. 
• Article dated April 5, 2015 from Independent Balkan News Agency stating that the average 
monthly salary in Albania is 45,539 ALL, or 330 euros. 
We first note that despite the Director's specific request in his RFE, the Petitioner did not submit 
verifiable evidence in support of these letters, such as Forms W-2 or foreign tax documentation of her 
salary. Although the Petitioner claimed that "there are no W-2 or taxes in 
Albania," she did not submit evidence in support of this statement, nor did she submit other evidence 
of her salary, such as copies of pay receipts or bank statements. The submitted evidence is insufficient 
to establish the amount of the Petitioner's salary. In addition, we note that the evidence regarding 
salaries in Albania does not provide data regarding the salaries of other singers in Albania, and thus 
does not provide a basis of comparison which would allow us to determine that the Petitione r's salary 
is high. Therefore, the Petitione r has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercia l successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
Matter of V-P-
In support of her qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner once again refers to the letter from 
of which as previously mentioned has not been properly translated. 
Also, we note that the value of a management contract, even if supported by verifiable evidence, is 
not one of the types of evidence specified in the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence in the form of Y ouTube screenshots of her music videos, 
showing the number of times they had been viewed. We will initially note that the Petitioner's claim 
that several of the videos have "over 2.4 million subscribers" is not accurate, as that number relates to 
the Y ouTube channel There is no indication in the record that this number of 
subscribers can be attributed solely to the Petitioner. More importantly, the Petitioner has not 
established that the number of views of her videos is evidence of commercial success similar to box 
office receipts, or compact disk or video sales, since this evidence does not demonstrate the monetary 
value of these views or otherwise set a basis for determining commercial success. Similarly, while 
the Petitioner submitted evidence that her music is available on digital streaming services such as 
Spotify and Soundcloud, and that some of her songs have been streamed or downloaded thousands of 
times over the course of several years, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that she has 
achieved commercial success. Accordingly, it does not establish that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. For these 
reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-P-, ID# 2794783 (AAO Apr. 22, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U. S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, her evidence 
provided under the judging criterion was not consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Director did 
not properly evaluate her evidence in the final merits determination. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of S-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the judging, display, and leading or 
critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vii), and (viii), respectively. However, after 
determining that the Petitioner met these initial evidence requirements, the Director mentioned and 
discussed only the documentation the Petitioner submitted for the judging criterion in the final merits 
determination. 
In addition to solely focusing on the evidence provided for the judging criterion, the Director's final 
merits assessment is problematic because it offered contradictory findings, analyses that do not appear 
relevant to the facts of this case, and unsubstantiated conclusions. For example, while the Director 
correctly noted that the Petitioner had "submitted evidence" showing that she was "part of an eleven 
member panel in competition to judge architectural design proposals ," the decision 
then contradicted this statement , indicating : "There is no evidence demonstrating that the petitioner 
actually judged the work of competitors such as assigning points or determining winners, rather than 
merely enforcing the rules and maintaining a fair sense of play. The absence of evidence of the 
beneficiary 's participation ... is a significant omission from the record."1 We note that this type of 
analysis relates to whether the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) rather than whether the submitted documentation contributes to a finding that the 
1 The phrase "enforcing the rules and maintaining a fair sense of play" appears more relevant to an athletic competition 
than an architectural design contest. 
2 
Matter of S-K-
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Furthermore, although the Director later 
stated that the record lacked "substantive evidence" of the Petitioner's "participation as a judge of the 
work of others ... that is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim," the decision's 
final merits discussion did not explain this conclusion. 
Here, the Director's final merits assessment did not properly consider the totality of the evidence. The 
Director only referenced the judging criterion and did not discuss the documentation relating to the 
other two criteria she found the Petitioner met, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii), as well as the 
other evidence in the record. Accordingly, we are remanding for the Director to consider the totality 
of the material provided and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d at 1115; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
131-32; Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d at 1339.2 If the Director determines that the Petitioner has 
not satisfied these requirements, the Director should issue a new decision, containing sufficient 
analysis to afford the Petitioner the opportunity to present a meaningful appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim and that she is among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field of endeavor. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball 
Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter ofS-K-, ID# 2794551 (AAO Apr. 23, 2019) 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that "USC IS officers should evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or not the 
petitioner, by a preponderance of the evidence, has demonstrated that the alien has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the alien is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor"). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 24, 2019 
APPEAL ON NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in public health, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofL-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist and principal statistician at the 
Because she has not indicated or established 
that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found 
that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for journals. In addition, she authored scholarly 
articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets an additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether she has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that she "developed a completely new evaluation plan for assessing the 
effectiveness and the impacts of policies regarding the restriction of menthol and flavored tobacco 
products, in addition to applying this framework to make important findings particularly regarding the 
impacts on tobacco use among vulnerable groups." The Petitioner provides an "Evaluation Plan" from 
the -========------===------======- for In addition, the Petitioner references 
previously submitted letters from and 
Although indicated that the Petitioner "designed the evaluation plan of this campaign, 
which provided guidelines about how to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of this statewide 
intervention," and did not specifically mention the "Evaluation Plan." In fact, 
the Petitioner cites to their letters relating to her research on marijuana use. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate, nor do their letters reflect, that and discussed her contributions 
regarding tobacco evaluation plan. 2 
Moreover, while the Director found that the evaluation plan, which she submitted in response to the 
request for evidence (RFE), occurred after the filing of the petition, the Petitioner argues that the plan 
"was first established in 2015" and "can be used as evidence of an original contribution of major 
significance."3 According to the Petitioner commenced employment with in 
January 2016, after the establishment of the "Evaluation Plan." Furthermore, at the initial filing of the 
petition, the Petitioner submitted her curriculum vitae where she generally indicated that she 
"[m]anag[ed] the evaluation of statewide tobacco control interventions" but did not mention the 
"Evaluation Plan." However, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner presented an updated curriculum 
vitae reflecting that she "[ d]evelop[ ed] the evaluation plan and conduct[ ed] the evaluation of: 
[emphasis added]." 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 A review of the "Evaluation Plan" reflects a study on menthol cigarettes and flavored tobacco products without any 
reference to marijuana use. 
3 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
3 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Although the record shows that the "Evaluation Plan" was initiated by before her employment, 
the record does reflect that she contributed to it at some point. However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate when the results were finalized, released, or implemented to show that any benefits or 
outcomes occurred prior to the filing of the petition. 4 In fact, the record contains a letter submitted at 
initial filing from chief of . who indicated that the Petitioner "designed the 
evaluation of this campaign" and "[t]he evaluation results will [emphasis added] facilitate the adoption 
of more jurisdictions and policies that restrict menthol and flavored tobacco products, and will 
[emphasis added] also allow to chart successes." Here, speculates on the potential 
influence and on the possibility of being impactful without establishing how the plan already qualified 
as contribution of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, stated that as of July 2018, 18 jurisdictions in California have adopted policies 
that restrict menthol and flavored tobacco products, and the evaluation results "are being considered 
by [four] other states for planning their further campaign intervention design." Again, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that letter showed her eligibility at time of filing. Moreover, while 
indicated the number of jurisdictions in California who have adopted policies, the Petitioner 
did not establish the impact of the plan on the overall field. 5 Further, did not provide 
specific, detailed information demonstrating that the field recognized her plan as being majorly 
significant beyond some jurisdictions adopting unidentified policies in California and possible interest 
from other states. 6 For example, did not articulate what actions the jurisdictions 
implemented as a result from the plan and how they reduced tobacco use. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the "Evaluation Plan" was "supported by federal funding under 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National State-Based Tobacco Control Program." 
Receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself 
Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or other similar funding are reflective of her 
past works' major significance, or that her work conducted with the funding resulted in contributions 
of major significance. Here, while the Petitioner's "Evaluation Plan" was federally funded, she did 
not demonstrate that her plan caused a major, significant contribution. In addition, she did not show 
how the federal funding reflected the importance of her contributions to the overall field. 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance to the field. The Petitioner submits her 
updated citation history from Google Scholar reflecting that her six articles received 31, 25, 19, 12, 
11, 5 citations, respectively. In addition, the Petitioner contends that her articles appeared in "high-
4 The "Evaluation Plan" reflects a period covering March 30, 2015 to March 29, 2017. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
6 The Petitioner also offers a screenshot from edu and indicates that she was invited and presented a 
seminar of her evaluation study at in Georgia. The screenshot does not reflect when the 
presentation occurred, and the Petitioner did not establish that a one-time seminar demonstrates a majorly significant 
contribution to the greater field. 
4 
Matter ofL-L-
profile journal publications." Here, the Petitioner does not articulate the significance or relevance of 
these numbers. Although her citations are indicative that her research has received some attention 
from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her citation numbers to her individual articles 
represent majorly significant contributions to the field.7 Generally, citations can serve as an indication 
that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently 
identified the specific contributions she has made through her written work, nor has she shown that 
her citations for any of her published articles are commensurate with contributions of major 
significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the 
publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, demonstrate an author's influence or impact 
of research on the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that all six of her papers rank between the top .10% and 10% in her 
field for the respective year of publication and references previously submitted documentation from 
InCites Essential Science Indicators from Thomson Reuters. The comparative ranking to baseline or 
average citation rates, however, does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions to 
the field. 8 Once again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field rather than where her citation rates rank among others 
in her field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's 
citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major 
significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Publications and presentations are 
not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated, as she asserts, that every article she has authored and published 
resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner indicates that her work has been cited by other researchers and scientists whose 
papers have been published in highly ranked journals. However, the citation of the Petitioner's article 
by another in a highly ranked journal does not automatically demonstrate that her research or article 
is viewed as a contribution of major significance. Moreover, a review of the sample articles provided 
by the Petitioner does not show the significance of her research to the overall field beyond the authors 
who cited to her work. For instance, the Petitioner offered a partial article from BMC Public Health 
that does not distinguish or highlight her written work from the other 73 other cited papers in the 
article. 9 In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through citations rise 
to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
8 For instance, according to the data fromlnCites, clinical medicine papers published in 2016 receiving only one citation 
were in the top 10% and papers receiving only eight citations were in the top .10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that papers with such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field regardless 
of whether they were among the top .10% or 10% of most highly cited articles according to the year of publication. 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Finally, the Petitioner claims that her "work has been highly praised by numerous independent experts 
in her field and allied fields who not only attest as to its significance but also its impact on their own 
work." While the recommendation letters summarize the Petitioner's professional accomplishments, 
they do not explain how her research and written work have been considered by the field to be of 
major significance. For example, discussed the citation of the Petitioner's paper 
in his own written work and asserted that it "is sure to benefit the field of severe obesity and bariatric 
surgery." 10 Here, did not explain how the Petitioner's research has already benefited the 
overall field of severe obesity and bariatric surgery, as well as how the field views it as a contribution 
of major significance. 
The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her research has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value.11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59(Sept.19, 1990);seealsosection203(b)(l)(A)oftheAct. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 While we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not e>..'Plain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
Matter ofL-L-
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-L-, ID# 2814325 (AAO Apr. 24, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-M-V-S-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a mountaineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The petition was initially approved. Subsequently, the Director of the Nebraska Service Center issued 
the Petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the approval of the petition (NOIR). Upon receipt of the 
Petitioner's response to the NOIR, the Director revoked the approval of the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met at least three of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria but that he did not qualify for this classification in the final merits 
analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits contends that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, provides that "[t]he Attorney General [now Secretary, 
Department of Homeland Security], may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." The realization by 
the director that the petition was approved in error may be good and sufficient cause for revoking the 
approval. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988). 
11. ANALYSIS 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director held that the Petitioner met the following criteria: awards, 
membership, published material, judging, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), 
(iii), (iv), and (viii) respectively, but that he had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
Here, we agree that the Petitioner has established the leading or critical role criterion, but we disagree 
with the Director regarding the criteria for awards, membership, published material, and judging; we 
find that the record does not establish that the Petitioner meets these requirements. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationa lly recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion, but we find that the evidence in the record 
is insufficient to establish that he has received such prizes or awards in the field. The record contains 
an August 2016 letter from the president of the 
1 __ . , stating that "the has set its standards for [the] championship awards of 
2 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
members" for climbing summits. This letter contains a chart prepared by 
regarding the championship standards for ascending summits of differing heights, noting the type of 
medal as a bronze, silver, or gold medal from the categories of National, Asia, and World depending 
on the height of the summit. refers to these accomplishments as being equivalent to a medal 
in these categories. For example, he states that the Petitioner "has won several national and 
international championships," noting that "[h]is highest achievement is [the] equivalent of [an] 
International Silver Medal due to his climb of .. in 2010." 1 The record 
contains documents from the with the title, "Championship Certificate," which identify the 
peak that the Petitioner has climbed and which also state what its equivalency is as a medal. For 
example, the "Championship Certificate" indicating that the Petitioner climbed the in 
2014 states that this ascent is the "equivalent of Asia's Gold Medal." The use of the term "equivalent" 
demonstrates that this is a certificate of an achievement that is equivalent to an award, but the record 
does not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually received a prize or an award to meet the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. 2 
In addition, the record does not contain corroborating evidence of these championships, such as bylaws 
from the or press coverage discussing the championships and whether awards are given for 
climbing these mountains. We also note that the record contains certificates from the government of 
Nepal about certain summits the Petitioner has climbed, but these certificates are called into question 
because they do not use the same language in referencing the governmental entity that issued the 
certificate. For example, the record contains a certificate from the 
'certifying that the Petitioner successfully climbed === in 2008. The 
record contains similar certificates indicating that the Petitioner climbed in 2010 
and in 2011, but these documents state that they were issued by the 
for the government of Nepal and omit the term While the 
record does contain objective evidence indicating that the Petitioner did climb these summits, this 
discrepancy calls into question these certificates. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). We also note that the certificate indicating that the Petitioner ascended 
the states that it is a height of , but the certificate from the government of 
Nepal for this climb states that it is ' ~ When viewed together, these inconsistencies 
diminish the persuasiveness of the evidence submitted as to whether the Petitioner has received a prize 
or award that is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Id 
The record contains other certificates indicating that the Petitioner climbed the 
in 2014, for example, but it is unclear what entity issued this certificate. For the 
reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that the certificates in the record constitute a 
prize or award, nor does the record contain other evidence indicating that these are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence m the field. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's 
accomplishment in having climbed and these other peaks, the record does not 
1 The record reflects tha tallest mountain in the world. 
2 While we do not cite to each certificate submitted in support of the petition, we have considered all of them. See Noroozi 
v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 544 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (noting that it is not erroneous that a USCIS decision does not 
cite from each and every letter in support of a petition). 
3 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
reflect that he received a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award as a result. Therefore, 
he has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion, but we disagree. The Petitioner states that he 
meets this criterion based on his membership in the team of mountaineering. In 
another letter written by in December 2016, he states that the Petitioner was one of only 
· · ~-· ~ ~ ~ · · ~ out of 240 professional mountaineers who 
applied for the expedition. However, the Petitioner does not indicate what being on the 
team entails and whether it requires outstanding achievements of its members for membership 
on the team. Instead, states that after "several rounds of evaluation and camp participation," 
qualified for the team." 's letter from August 2016 indicates that 
these evaluations are based on the applicants' "physical fitness, endurance, temperance, and 
understanding," which he notes are "crucial characteristics for successful mountaineers." This 
demonstrates that membership on the team is based on an applicant's physical and mental 
abilities rather than being based on outstanding achievements. The record does not contain any 
evidence of the membership bylaws or the official admission requirements for the 
team of mountaineering. The Petitioner has not identified the national observers who evaluated him, 
nor has he submitted evidence to demonstrate that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. 
The Petitioner cites one of our decisions concerning an athlete's membership on a team, 
Matter of K-S-Y-, ID# 14269 (AAO Mar. 9, 2016). First, we note that this decision was not published 
as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, we conclude that the facts in this matter are 
distinguishable from those of that decision. In that case, the record demonstrated that the petitioner 
competed in selection matches that were judged by nationally recognized experts, to determine who 
would be on the national judo team. Additionally, the evidence indicated that Korea had the third 
highest number of Olympic medals in judo of any other country, which meant that qualifying for that 
team required outstanding achievements. Here, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence 
about the team of mountaineering, its requirements for membership, or documentation 
establishing that the individuals were who selected him for this team were nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field. 
The Petitioner indicates that the is an active member of the International Climbing and 
Mountaineering Federation (UIAA , and the record contains the UIAA articles of association and its 2017 
annual report, which lists the as a member, but this evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
is a member of the UIAA or that it requires outstanding achievements of its members for membership. 
Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
4 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had established that he met this criterion. We disagree. In order 
for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as stated in the 
regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. To qualify 
as major media, the publication should have significant national or international distribution. 
Furthermore, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires that "[s]uch 
evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation." 
Here, we note that the record contains articles from the Kurdpress International News Agency (KINA) 
about the Petitioner, but these articles do not meet the requirements of this criterion as they do not 
state the name of the author, as required. We also note the in both articles from the KINA, from 2015 
and 2016, they state that the Petitioner has been a member of the mountaineering team for 14 
years, which would mean that he would have joined in 2001 or 2002, but the August 2016 letter from 
indicates that the Petitioner has been a member of this team since 2004. The Petitioner must 
resolve this inconsistency with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. While this discrepancy calls into question this evidence, the 
fact that the authors are not listed means that this evidence does not meet the requirements for this 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record also contains articles from the Islamic Republic 
News Agency (IRNA) and the HamshahriOnline News Website that do not state the names of the 
authors and therefore do not meet the regulatory requirements. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion for having evaluated the performances of those 
seeking to join mountaineering teams. In his August 2016 letter, states 
that since 2012, the Petitioner had attended eight camps across as a national observer of 
mountaineers. indicates that in this role, the Petitioner was tasked with evaluating their 
performances to determine whether they had the capacity to climb the summits as a member of the 
"Himalayan climbs national team." The Petitioner must show that he has actually participated in the 
judging of the work of others. 3 Here, he has not provided evidence corroborating letter, 
such as documentation detailing his responsibilities as a national observer for or identifying 
specific instances of his judging. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of this criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1. pdf. 
5 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 4 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 5 
The plain language of the criterion requires the petitioner to show his leading and critical role for 
organizations and establishments, as a whole, not merely events organized by organizations and 
establishments. states in his July 2018 letter that has arranged 14 Himalaya 
expeditions since 2008 and that the Petitioner has been the team leader for three of these expeditions. 
Here, we find that the evidence in the record does not establish that his role as a team leader on three 
out of 14 expeditions constitutes a leading or critical role to the organization as a whole. For example, 
with respect to whether he performed a leading role, the Petitioner has not provided evidencing 
demonstrating how his role as a team leader affected the overall or how his position fits within 
the hierarchy of those employed by the With respect to whether this constitutes a critical role, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his role as a team leader is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the s principal activities. For example, the record does not demonstrate the 
Petitioner's duties as a team leader or whether he was the primary leader on these three 
expeditions or how many expeditions the arranges to show the influence he has had in the 
organization as a whole. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
In summary, we conclude that the Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required 
initial evidence of either a qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality 
of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Accordingly, the approval of the petition was properly revoked. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-M-V-S-M- , ID# 2397447 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-M-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown he met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of W-M-E-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) or offer comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) to meet the basic eligibility requirements. The Director held 
that he did not meet any of these criteria. 
The Petitioner asserts throughout his brief that the Director violated the U.S. Constitution by failing 
to consider evidence, repeating errors, requiring further evidence, holding prior judgment, concluding 
the decision before receiving the Petitioner's response to the request for evidence, and creating 
unknown rules. As the Petitioner cites constitutional concerns throughout the brief, we note that 
USCIS administers extraordinary ability visas pursuant to statutory and regulatory authorities, and the 
Petitioner does not argue that a specific provision of the statute or regulations is unconstitutional. To 
the extent that the Petitioner's argument had been grounded in the constitutionality of the statute and 
pertinent regulations, we lack jurisdiction to rule on the constitutionality of laws enacted by Congress 
or of regulations promulgated by DHS. See, e.g., Matter of Fuentes-Campos, 21 I&N Dec. 905,912 
(BIA 1997); Matter of C-, 20 I&N Dec. 529, 532 (BIA 1992). Therefore, we will consider the 
Petitioner's constitutional concerns as they relate to whether USCIS complied with the applicable 
statute and regulations. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the seven criteria relating to awards, membership, 
published material, original contributions, scholarly articles, leading or critical roles, and salary. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix). For the reasons discussed below, the 
2 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this 
criterion based on a number of awards he received as a youth 
or student. The record contains a certificate of merit from the 
stating that the Petitioner won first place 
awards in the field of "articles," "culture," and "individual talents" at the respective 17th, 18th, and 
19th 1 He also contends that his awards for 
"Creative Writing," "Short Story," and an acceptance letter to represent the 
1 satisfy this criterion. Finally, the Petitioner submitted certificates received for voluntary 
work at camps in 
The record does not establish that any of these awards satisfy the requirements of the criterion. The 
certificates related to the work camps note they are for the Petitioner's "role in strengthening 
friendship," and thus appear to be acknowledgements of his participation rather than an award. The 
Director noted in her decision that no evidence was submitted to establish that any of the awards were 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence 
to overcome that ground. Finally, although the Petitioner contends that the awards from the 
receive national recognition as they are presented by the government, 
he submits no evidence to support his position regarding their recognition. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has received nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in his field of endeavor. Therefore, the evidence does demonstrate that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that his membership in the satisfies 
this criterion. The record contains the Petitioner's membership card, a document entitled "History of 
the Syndicate," and a webpage from the World Federation of Engineering Organization (WFEO), 
stating that the _ _ "is considered an advisory body of the State in 
the field of specialization." The Petitioner references the law organizing the work of the in his 
appeal brief, but such documentation is missing from the record. 
1 We note that the translations of these documents, and the majority of the translations in the record, do not state that they 
are complete and accurate. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
3 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that "any scientific syndicate, including Egypt, requires governmental 
accreditation as a stipulation for joining" and that "earning a PhD in civil Engineering [sic], from a 
reputable governmental university in Egypt, is in itself and by itself a major outstanding achievement; 
because the PhD is judged by national experts in the field, and accredited by the government." 
(Emphasis in the original). However, he has provided no evidence or support for his claim that his 
doctorate degree equates to an outstanding achievement as contemplated by the regulation. 
Additionally, he has not demonstrated that his degree was judged by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in their fields. 
Furthermore, the evidence that has been submitted by the Petitioner does not establish that his 
membership in satisfies the regulatory requirements. The record lacks documentation of the 
membership criteria, and thus does not establish that the Petitioner's advanced degree is required for 
entry. Additionally, the translated document related to the history of the organization is not properly 
certified in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), and therefore we cannot meaningfully determine 
if it supports the Petitioner's claims. Thus, the record does not demonstrate that his membership in 
establishes eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the published material in the record was not entirely about the Petitioner and 
that the articles were not published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
After review, we agree that most of the articles do not qualify under this criterion, either by not being 
about the Petitioner, not appearing in a qualifying publication, or by failing to provide all the 
information required by the regulation, such as the author's name. The Petitioner also claimed that 
several television appearances established his eligibility, but he submitted no evidence, such as 
transcripts, to support his claim. 
However, we find that one article, discussing the Petitioner and his research on the use of 
environmental waste as a shield against radiation, satisfies the requirements of the regulation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner introduces this criterion on appeal and references several contributions he has made. 
First, he references a paper that was presented at the 22nd 
m in 2014, entitled, _ _ 
" The Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating how this 
presentation has impacted the field, such as evidence that it has elicited widespread commentary or 
4 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
received notice from others in the field. 2 Even though this appears to be an original scientific 
contribution, the Petitioner has not provided evidence that it is of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner cites a portion of his curriculum vitae which contains two photographs of him with 
Prince the Prince of the 
in 2015. The Petitioner states that the photographs show him presenting the Prince with 
a development study for the region. The record contains a letter from the Prince, thanking the 
Petitioner for the proposals while stating that they are under study in the in his administration and 
other departments. The record does not contain a copy of this development study or other evidence 
demonstrating that it has had an impact in the field. 
The record contains a letter from , Founder and President of the 
, which she indicates is an organization "that encourages 
Arab women, as a minority, to engage positively in U.S. society." She adds that the Petitioner assisted 
with translating an educational kit about autism into Arabic as part of a charitable project to 
the Arab community of Morocco. She describes his help as "priceless, valuable and generous" and 
indicates that he "significantly contributed in helping both the poor autistic children and their families 
in the US and across the world, who will benefit from this project now and in the future." Letters that 
specifically articulate how contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lacks specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.3 Here, l letters speaks only in generalities of the impact of the Petitioner's work, 
without providing specifics about the impact of his work as a translator, and thus fails to demonstrate 
the significance of his work. 
Finally, the Petitioner also claims that he supervised a master's degree researcher, but provides no 
information to support this claim or to demonstrate its impact on the field. Therefore, for the reasons 
discussed above, the record does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As noted above, the record contains an article entitled, " 
that was presented at the 22nd 
in 
in 2014. The record reflects that this was published in the 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology in 2014, which is a professional 
journal. Accordingly , the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/H TML/PolicyManual.html . 
3 Id. 
5 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the 
role was critical for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner raises this claim for the first time on appeal. He bases his assertion that he meets this 
criterion on a number of bases. Initially, he claims that the recommendation letter from 
the editor-in-chief of the, newspaper establishes eligibility. The recommendation letter, 
the Petitioner claims in his brief, is "strong proof for the appellant's unique undivided talent, as a 
think-tank, who genuinely can employ his overall academic skills in providing practical life solutions 
in different fields." While this letter compliments the Petitioner, it does not identify any leading or 
critical role he has performed for any organization or establishment. Therefore, it cannot establish 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner then claims that his role in translating the autism educational kit into Arabic for 
meets this criterion. While the letter from describes his background and his 
translation work, it does not address how his work for the organization was leading or critical. Nor 
has the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
Thus, he has not established that his work with the organization satisfies the evidentiary criterion. 
The letter of appreciation the Petitioner received for his work in Saudi Arabia from provides the basis 
for his next claim of eligibility under this criterion. The relevant portion of the prince's letter states 
"[w]e have received number [sic] of your good propositions. We thank you for these propositions. 
We inform you that these propositions are under study in the .. and other departments." The 
letter does not identify what propositions its author is referencing, nor does it indicate that the 
Petitioner's role is either leading or critical. Aside from photographs of the Petitioner with the Prince, 
the record does not contain other evidence related to his work in Saudi Arabia that would establish 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that his role at satisfies the requirements of this criterion. In his 
brief, he does not identify what role he held or explain why it was leading or critical. He refers to a 
letter from an assistant professor of philosophy at . who discusses the Petitioner's 
role in forming and presiding over a club at the university, the 
does not describe how this role with a student club was leading or critical for the 
university, nor does the 
record contain additional evidence related to this organization. The Petitioner 
also cites to several documents referencing him as a member of the "Diamond Team" and inviting him 
to continue on as a member. Neither the Petitioner nor the evidence in the record explain what the 
Diamond Team is, what the Petitioner 's role was, or how it was leading or critical. Therefore , the 
Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that his roles at . or any other 
organization meet this criterion. 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner asserts that he has a high probability of receiving higher remuneration than his peers in 
the field, based upon the letter from the Prince of the in 2015. As 
discussed above, the Prince thanks the Petitioner for the propositions he has presented and states that 
they are under study in his administration and other departments, but there is no discussion about 
compensation. Nor has the Petitioner submitted other evidence of salary. While he asserts that he is 
likely to receive higher remuneration than his peers in the field, the regulation requires that he has 
already commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Finally, the Petitioner cites 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) which allows him to submit comparable evidence 
to establish his eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his 
occupation. He asserts that his three post-graduate academic degrees constitute comparable evidence 
to establish his eligibility. First, the Petitioner has not established why the criteria addressed above 
do not readily apply to his occupation. Second, the Petitioner has not established that this other 
evidence establishes his eligibility. He has not shown how his master's degree in teaching Arabic as 
a foreign language from the constitutes evidence of his expertise or acclaim in civil engineering 
research and teaching. While the Petitioner has a Ph.D. in structural engineering from 
and a master's degree in structural engineering from , he has not provided support for 
why these degrees are comparable to the listed criteria. Similarly, the record contains recommendation 
letters from Assistant Professor of Philosophy at from Dean 
of Students at . and from Counsellor. These letters attest to the -
Petitioner's membership on the Diamond Team at and his academic successes, but they do not 
demonstrate comparable eligibility to the standards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20.4 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
4 We note that the Petitioner's appeal brief includes a discussion of case law relating to how eligibility should be detennined 
once initial evidentiary requirements are met. Here, as the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidentiary requirements, 
we need not address these argument s. 
Matter of W-M-E-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofW-M-E-, ID# 1410339 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-, INC. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architecture and engineering firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, a senior 
electrical engineer and project manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had only established that the Beneficiary met one of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that the Beneficiary meets three 
criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is a 
major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an architecture and engineering firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, a senior 
electrical engineer and project manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. As the record does 
not establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director held that the Petitioner had only established that the Beneficiary met the judging criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the 
criteria for awards, membership, original contributions of major significance, scholarly articles, 
leading or critical role, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix). Here, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the criteria for judging, 
scholarly articles, and high salary. 
Specifically, the record reflects that the Beneficiary has judged the work of others in having conducted 
reviews of professional engineering continuing education courses. He has published scholarly articles 
in the Electrical Construction & Maintenance Journal and in the PE Magazine, a publication of the 
National Society of Professional Engineers. And the record contains sufficient documentation from 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to establish that he commands a high salary in relation to others in 
2 
..
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
the field. Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he 
has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The Beneficiary is a senior engineer and project manager for the Petitioner. The record shows that he 
received his bachelor's degree in electronics and telecommunications from the University of m 
India m 2005. He received his master's degree in electrical engineering from 
in 2007. As mentioned above, he meets the criteria for judging, scholarly articles, 
and high salary. At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Director noted that the Beneficiary has won several awards, concluding that they did not satisfy 
the criterion because they were limited to students and early career professionals and did not receive 
national or international recognition. On appeal, the Petitioner has not challenged this conclusion. 
Instead, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not address two awards called the Young Engineer 
of the Year Award in the response to the Director's request for evidence. One of these awards was 
given by the ~~-~-- ' and the other was given 
by the 
Here, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that these awards resulted in national or 
international acclaim to the Beneficiary. The award issued by the is a state-specific award, 
and the record does not contain additional evidence establishing that the Beneficiary received national 
or international acclaim for receiving it. While the Young Engineer Award is awarded by a 
national society, the record does not show that this fact alone establishes national or international 
acclaim. The record contains an announcement about this award in the Albany Business Review and 
on the _ College of Engineering and Computer Science website, but these do not 
appear to be publications that are indicative of national or international acclaim. The Petitioner has 
not submitted sufficient evidence of the acclaim connected to this award to meet the requirements of 
this classification , such as press coverage of a national or international level or other documentation. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner references the criteria relating to the Beneficiary 's awards, membership, contributions of major 
significance , and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). We will consider the evidence 
relating to these criteria in our final merits determination as we assess whether the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
3 
.
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights the Beneficiary's membership in but it has not been 
established how this membership has resulted in his national or international acclaim. The record 
contains a letter from Ph.D., the executive director of welcoming the 
Beneficiary to which he identifies as "[t]he Scientific Research Society." He indicates that 
throughout the organization's more than 120 years of history, "scientists and engineers from a wide 
range of disciplines-including over 200 Nobel Laureates-have united ... as companions in zealous 
research." Therefore, he states, ' membership connects [ a member] to both a global scientific 
network and a venerable scientific legacy." While the Beneficiary's membership in is 
notable, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how it is indicative of one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the top of the field. 
The Petitioner references letters from colleagues and other engineers in the record regarding the 
Beneficiary's contributions in the field. 2 While these letters discuss the Beneficiary's contributions 
in certain projects, showing how highly regarded he is among those who have worked with him, this 
evidence does not establish that he has national or international acclaim in the field. For example, 
senior electrical engineer at ,, discusses the 
Beneficiary's work on a railway freight line, stating, "[i]n the nation, there are not many electrical 
engineers who can design a railway electrical system network." further highlights the 
Beneficiary's design of solar-powered hazard beacons for the aviation industry in Vermont, indicating 
that it was "a significant improvement over existing designs" that "greatly reduced maintenance 
costs." While we note the Beneficiary's successes in these fields, the Petitioner has not shown that 
this resulted in national or international acclaim to the Beneficiary. 
Similarly, regional office manager for Inc., discusses several projects 
that the Beneficiary has been involved in, specifically noting his expertise in designing electrical 
systems for hazardous fuel line environments. We acknowledge the Beneficiary's skill set in his 
industry, but the record has not shown that he has received national or international acclaim for his 
work on these projects. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's contributions as a member of the 
. the 
record contains a letter from , a member of the 
discussing the Beneficiary's work in improving standards. 
He states that he recruited the Beneficiary to take part in developing the a 
standard for estimating costs which "is used by power-oriented engineers , particularly by those who 
design large, complicated systems." The letter further indicates that the Beneficiary is now the co­
chair of the group working on the prospective standard, but the record lacks evidence explaining the 
significance of the his role and how it shows sustained national or international acclaim or recognition 
of his achievements that place him at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
.
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary has published scholarly material, but the Petitioner 
has not shown that two articles published approximately 10 years prior to the filing of the petition is 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's leading or critical role in its organization has 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. the Petitioner's senior principal 
and owner, states that the Beneficiary has been "instrumental in [the Petitioner's] ability to grow its 
office, increase profits and create employment opportunities for American workers." Mr. 
states that the Beneficiary designed and managed projects exceeding $4 million, which accounted 
for 15 percent of the Petitioner's total billings for fiscal year 2015. The Petitioner also asserts that due 
to the Beneficiary's work, the company has grown its office from 7 to 14 full-time employees. 
While these are notable accomplishments, the record does not show how these successes have resulted 
in national or international acclaim. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Finally, although the Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary earns a high salary in relation to 
others in the field. While this may demonstrate some degree ofrecognition of his achievements in the 
field, he has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover , the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings , it is 
5 
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-, Inc., ID# 2149550 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-L-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jazz pianist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding the Petitioner had satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b) of the Act states in pertinent part: 
(1) Priority workers. --Visas shall first be made available ... to qualified immigrants 
who are aliens described in any of the following subparagraphs (A) through (C): 
(A) Aliens with extraordinary ability. -An alien is described in this subparagraph 
if-
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
Matter of H-L-E-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a jazz pianist who has performed individually and with multiple ensembles. As the 
Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the 
Petitioner had met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria; published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills five criteria. Upon review of all of the evidence, 
we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that his receipt of the third prize in the 2016 I I competition as a member 
of thel I and second prize at the 2004 I I national piano competition 
meets this criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 1 In regard to his third 
prize award in the I I competition, the Petitioner provided a press release regarding his 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
Matter of H-L-E-
ensemble's receipt of the 2016 award, three articles from the Detroit Free Press, Houston Press, and 
National Public Radio' sl I, and a letter from the University of1 !School of Music 
dean discussing the competition. Although the Petitioner provided three articleyeferrinf to the grand 
prize, he did not submit documentation to establish that a third place prize at the Competition 
is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 2 
Concerning the second prize at the 2004 .__ ______ _.national piano competition, the Petitioner 
submitted a letter from the artistic and musical director for the 2004 competition and a picture of a 
trophy labeled "II Festival I I 2 Lugar N acional." While the letter from I I 
discusses the Petitioner's receipt of the award and the competition's prestige, the record does not 
establish that his 2004 second prize award received national or international recognition for excellence 
in the field. For example, the record does not contain evidence that the second place prize garnered 
media attention or is otherwise nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We note that the Director's decision states without explanation that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
documentation to satisfy this criterion. As explained below, upon de nova review of the record, we 
find the Petitioner has not provided published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which included the title, date, and author. 3 Therefore, he has not 
satisfied its requirements. 
The Petitioner provided articles and album reviews from various publications, such as Epoch Times 
and Downbeat. Thou h the article and 
album review are about the 
Petitioner, the evidence does not demonstrate the publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner 
offered printouts from Similar Web regarding the publications' rankings and "traffic overview." 
Similar Web reflects that the websites range from a global ranking of 8,052 to 900,667; a country 
ranking of 251 to 308,276; and total visits of 13,090,000 to 64,430. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major media. 
While the articles and album reviews from London Jazz News, Jazz Trail, Jazz Weekly, Jay Harvey 
Upstage, The Phillipian, and Jazz da Gama are about the Petitioner, the record does not include 
evidence regarding the qualifying nature of the publications. Further, the Latin Beat Magazine article, 
"Annual Panama Jazz Fest Puts Accent on Education," was not specifically about the Petitioner. 
Rather, it was about a jazz festival in which he participated, only briefly mentioning him as one of the 
2 We note that thel I competition only began in 2016 and has since been terminated. Seel !chamber Music 
Competition, http://! , ~du/index.html#about (last accessed on July 30, 2019, and incorporated into the record). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Matter of H-L-E-
musicians. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Jazz Chill article does not 
include the author of the material, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence demonstrating it is a qualifying publication. 4 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains evidence showing that the Petitioner participated as a judge of musicians at jazz 
festivals. Therefore, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he performed before audiences at concerts and other 
music events. As such, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has played a leading and critical role" with the ._I ____ ___. 
and I I As it relates to a leading role, the .__ _____________ _, 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 5 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 6 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim that he performed a critical role for theDfrom 2017 to present as 
the "only faculty member responsible for the I I Jazz Ensemble," he refers to letters from 
various individuals including I I Jazz Department faculty member, andl I 
a jazz pianist anLJ educator. 7 I I states that the Petitioner's "abilities as a jazz pianist are 
unmatched within our industry," "his abilities as a composer and jazz educator are also unrivaled," 
and he "serves in a critical role as a faculty member for the success of the I I Jazz Department." I I indicates that the Petitioner "is a remarkable jazz pianist" and is "without question one of 
the finest jazz pianists" he has worked with. While the authors speak positively of the Petitioner's 
4 Id. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 Id. 
7 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Matter of H-L-E-
talents as an educator and musician, they lack detailed and probative information about the Petitioner's 
role and its impact on the organization to determine that it was critical. 8 
The Petitioner also contends that his experience as a founding member, the only pianist, and one of 
two South American musicians constitutes a critical role for thd I The record contains 
documentation confirmin~ Is third prize award in the 2016 I I competition and his 
role as its only pianist. In addition, the Petitioner provided a concert program regarding the ensemble's 
performance atl ~ that discusses his contributions as the group's Brazilian pianist. 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserts that he played a critical and leadin& role as the only pianist with the 
.__ ______ -,-1----e_n_se_m_b--,le. He submitted documentation reflectingl I' invitation 
to perform at the.__ __ ___.Festival and several articles that discuss the event and its artici ants. For 
example, the San Diego Tribune article s I t noted~-------~ with the Petitioner as the ensemble's pianist, will 
perform at the festival. 
While the Petitioner has established that he played a critical role in the I land theD I l the record does not contain supporting documentation to show that the groups have a 
distinguished reputation, marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 9 Without sufficient 
corroborative documentation, the Petitioner has not established that the ensembles enjoy distinguished 
reputations, as required by the regulation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has failed to submit the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. The appeal will be 
dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for 
the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofH-L-E-, ID# 3680190 (AAO Aug.7, 2019) 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF P-G-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a microbial ecologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief asserting that she fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of P-G-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitio1er was working as a nostdocforal research associate in the Department 
of Entomology at University of.__ _________ _,. Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the 
Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects 
that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts and authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that she 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner provided evidence indicating that she is a member of Entomological Society of America 
(ESA), Association of Women in Science, National Postdoctoral Association, and Ecological Society 
2 
Matter of P-G-
of America (ESOA) 1, but she has not demonstrated that membership in these associations required 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For example, 
while the Petitioner offered documentation pertaining to the ESOA, including its constitution, bylaws, 
and information about its "Board of Professional Certification," this evidence is not sufficient to show 
that her "Certified Ecologist" designation required outstanding achievements. Rather, the evidence 
indicates that this ESOA certification is determined based on education, experience, and "the ability 
to perform professional work in ecology."2 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented various research articles that cite to her scholarly 
works. These articles are about the authors' scientific findings and not the Petitioner. 3 Here, the 
citations to the Petitioner's work do not constitute published material about her consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 4 She has not established therefore that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted her publications and presentations, citation 
evidence for her published work, and letters of recommendation from colleagues. The Director 
considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
1 The Petitioner received "certification at the Ecologist level" rrom the ESOA. 
2 According to ESOA's "Professional Ecologist Certifications" guidelines, the requirements for Certified Ecologist are: 
"A master's or higher degree in ecology or a related science from an accredited college or university and at least two (2) 
years of full-time equivalent professional experience after degree; OR at least five (5) years of professional experience in 
addition to the education requirement for Associate Ecologist; and [i]n addition to the I-year experience requirement for 
Associate Ecologist. candidates must also demonstrate the ability to perform professional work in ecology such as 
independent studies, complex data analyses, and publication of scientific journal articles, reports, or oral presentations 
must follow completion of the education requirement for qualification at the Ecologist level. Relevant experience should 
have been gained within the previous five (5) years." Sec https://www.esa.org/certification/guide-requirements/, copy 
incorporated into the record of proceedings. In addition, we note that ESOA's "Senior Ecologist" designation requires a 
higher level of education and professional accomplishment. 
3 For exam le the Petitioner resented an article in Frontiers in Marine Science entitled 
but this articl~e_i_s_n_o_t _a.,....b-ou_t_t..,..h_e_P_e-ti-ti-o-ne-1-· as ~------------------------~ required by the language of 8 C.F .R. · 204.5 h 3 iii . Rather on a e 11 the aforementioned article briefl references 
her scholarly work stating: 
~---------,-----~(Pauli, 2017)." This article similarly references the scholarly works of hundreds 
of other authors. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that the published material should be about the 
petitioner relating to her work in the field). 
3 
Matter of P-G-
work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed 
below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has presented her work at "invited symposia" and authored 
"invited articles."5 While the Petitioner contends that these invited symposia and invited articles show 
her expertise in the field, she does not identify which of her particular research articles or presentations 
offers findings that are of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance" in the field. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122. There is no presumption that publishing research (such as an invited review) or 
presenting work at an invited symposium represents a contribution of major significance in the field; 
rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of her article or presentation. Here, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently demonstrated that her published and presented work was majorly significant in the 
field. 
As one type of evidence of the impact of her work, the record includes information from Research 
Gate showing "12 citations" to her work and "Google Scholar citation metrics" reflecting 23 "citing 
articles" at the time of filing. Generally, citations can confirm that the field has taken interest in a 
researcher's work. While the Petitioner submitted various examples of articles that cited to her work, 
they do not reflect that her work was singled out as particularly important. Rather, the Petitioner's 
findings were utilized as background information to the authors' papers. In this case, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the number of citations to her work, considered both individually and 
collectively, are commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the field." 
The record also contains information about the journals that published the Petitioner's work, including 
their citation metrics and rankings. That a publication bears a high ranking is reflective of its overall 
citation rate. Ranking alone, however, does not demonstrate the influence of any particular author within 
the publication or show that an author's research has had an impact within the field. The appropriate 
analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown that her individual articles, factoring in 
citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not presented 
sufficient documentation to demonstrate that any of her published findings rise to the level of a 
contribution of major significance in her field. 
Similarly, while the Petitioner's participation in symposia such as the International Congress on 
Entomology and International Organic Geochemistry Workshop demonstrates that her findings were 
5 For example. the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that she gave an oral presentation in the International 
Workshop on C1mpound Specific Isotope Analysis of Amino Acids in the Department oflnteractive Biology atl I I In addition, the record shows that she was invited to submit an article for a special issue of Food Webs. 
4 
Matter of P-G-
shared with others and may be acknowledged as original based on their selection for presentation, she 
has not established that the selection of her work for presentation at these conferences and the requests 
for her to speak, in-and-of-themselves, show the major significance of her contributions. 
As another form of evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner contends that she provided letters from 
experts in the field who have offered testimony regarding her contributions in microbial ecolo~ 
Several of these references discussed her work involving bee-microbe interactions. For example,LJ I I, professor in the Department of Entomology atl !University 7, stated that the 
Pet1t10ner "was the first to apply neutral lipids analyses, a specific class of fatty acids, to detail trophic 
preferences among bees" and that her work "has shown that bees obtain a sinnificant proportion of 
their fats from fungi and bacteria, and less from pollen." While I indicated that "[t]hese 
results are both unexpected and especially noteworthy," the record does not include sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that this work has affected the Petitioner's field in a substantial 
way or otherwise constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. Likewise, I I 
professor of entomology at University of1 I asserted that the Petitioner's "findings provide 
compelling evidence that microbes not only serve as mutualists, but that they form an important part 
of bee diet." I I farther noted that these "highly novel results suggest that bee survivorship is 
inextricably related to their microbial symbionts," but the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that the impact of these findings rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's graduate research relating to mercury accumulation in polular game 
fish, I I professor of geological sciences at the University of I , indicated 
that the Petitioner's work "reported on previously undocumented aspects of habitat-specific foraging 
among fish populations as an underlying mechanism for mercury poisoning." I I farther 
stated that the Petitioner's "findings have developed an integrated view of food webs that include the 
function of microbial communities in pollutant cycling" and that her "results represent a major 
frameshift in mercury toxicity analysis." We recognize that research must add information to the pool 
of knowledge in some way in order to be accepted for publication, presentation, fonding, or academic 
credit, but not every finding that broadens knowledge in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific 
contribution of major significance in that field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that her findings 
have been widely implemented or otherwise represent a scientific contribution of major significance 
in her field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from the Petitioner's peers. Although these 
remaining letters praise her work, they do not demonstrate how her contributions are "of major 
significance in the field." As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through her citation history 
or other evidence that her work, once published or presented, has been of major significance in the 
field. While the selection of the Petitioner's articles in professional journals or at conference 
proceedings verifies the originality of her work, it does not necessarily reflect that her research is 
6 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 The record indicates thatl lis collaboratin on a multi-ear ro·ect with the Petitioner and her coworkers at I I and that they coauthored an article, entitled I 1, .__ _____________________ __, 
8 The record reflects that the Petitioner received her Ph.D. in Biological Sciences from the University of~I --~lin 2015 
and tha~ I served on her disse11ation committee. 
5 
Matter of P-G-
considered of major significance. Without sufficient evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes 
original scientific contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established 
that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she has performed in a leading or critical role for ESA as a member of its 
"position statement writing team." While the Petitioner has presented documentation indicating that 
ESA has a distinguished reputation, for the reasons discussed below, the evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role for that organization was leading or critical. 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 9 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 10 
The record includes a September 2018 letter from~---------------~ for 
ESA, stating that the Petitioner serves as an "ESA position statement writing team member." ~ I lforther indicated: "Writing Committees perform a central role in drafting the Society's 
Position Statements on issues of critical importance on which more scientific education is required. 
Position statements help define the advocacy goals and advocacy boundaries for the Society, which 
enables ESA to respond consistently and quickly to rapidly changing policy developments." 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted information from the ESA's website indicating that writing 
committees are overseen by the "ESA position statements" committee, a subcommittee to the ESA 
Science Policy Committee: 
The ESA Science Policy Committee ... is charged with leading the effort to establish 
a science policy agenda for ESA that will guide and focus the Society's outreach efforts 
with governments, NGOs, and other organizations. The committee's tasks included 
developing a framework for gathering input from throughout the Society, and 
determining how actions may benefit the Society and its members. The committee 
consists of a Chair (ESA Past-President), a representative from each Section and 
Branch, one student member, two Ad hoc members, one of whom is also the Society's 
EPA-OPP Liaison .... There are two subcommittees --one that supervises the Science 
Policy Fellows program and one that oversees the ESA position statements authoring 
and approval process (including working with the writing committees). 
The record contains farther information from ESA about its position statements, science policy writing 
committees, and the application process for volunteers seeking to serve on the position statement 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
io Id. 
6 
Matter of P-G-
wntmg committee. The Petitioner, however, has not shown that her role on the position statement 
writing team is leading or critical to ESA overall. Although the letter froml I confirms the 
Petitioner's service on the ESA position statement writing team, it does not indicate that the Petitioner 
ever held a leadership position within the ESA. Further, as it relates to a critical role, the evidence is 
not sufficient to show that the Petitioner has contributed to the success or standing of ESA. While D I I contends that Petitioner rendered a "critical contribution" to the society, he did not provide 
specific examples of how her service as a writer rose to a level consistent with a critical role. The 
Petitioner did not demonstrate, for example, that her specific work has significantly influenced ESA's 
science policy agenda. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she performed in a leading 
or critical role for ESA. Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of P-G-, ID# 3752874 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-M-G-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a healthcare provider, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a surgeon, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of •~------~surgery." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, it did not show the Beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and a brief: arguing that it has demonstrated the 
Beneficiary's required acclaim and that he has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of V-M-G-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS), 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This 
two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity 
of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence 
for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality 
of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The evidence, including the Beneficiary's resume, indicates that he received his medical physician 
and surgeon license from Pennsylvania in May 2013, and his certification from the American Board 
of Surgery in September 2017. According to a September 2018 letter from the Petitioner, since July 
2018, the Beneficiary has worked for the Petitioner as a '.__ ______ ____.Surgeon/Minimally 
Invasive! I Surgeon," receiving an "annual salary [ of] $261,000 with a potential quality bonus 
of $39,000." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the membership in associations criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) or the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record supports this conclusion. Specifically, while the Petitioner has submitted 
evidence of the Beneficiary's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
it has not demonstrated that these associations "require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." Similarly, 
while the evidence -including reference letters as well as documentation on the Beneficiary's research 
and citation frequency -shows that he is a surgeon who might have the potential to impact the field, 
it does not confirm that he has already made original contributions of major significant in the field of 
".__ ______ __, surgery." 
2 
Matter of V-M-G-
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the above criteria, he did find that 
the Petitioner satisfied three other criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). While we agree 
that the record confirms that the Petitioner meets two criteria -as relating to the Beneficiary's 
participation as a judge, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and his authorship of scholarly articles, 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we disagree that it also satisfies the criterion relating to the Beneficiary's salary or 
remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has presented evidence from professional publications -including JSM Pediatric 
Surgery and Saudi Medical Journal -confirming that the Beneficiary has served as one of their 
manuscript reviewers. Additionally, the record demonstrates that he has authored scholarly articles 
that are published in professional ·oumals. For exam le the Journal of Case Re arts and Ima es in 
Sur er ublished his article 
and Cases Journal ublished his paper 
While the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies two criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), it does not establish that it also meets the third criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires "[e]vidence that the [Beneficiary] has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 
According to a June 2018 letter from the Petitioner, it has employed the Beneficiary as a "physician 
specializing in..,,._ ______ __,surgery," compensating him with an annual salary of $261,000 as 
well as "a potential quality bonus of $39,000." A 2018 employment agreement references the potential 
bonus as "deferred compensation" or "compensation at risk." The Beneficiary's 2018 pay stubs 
confirm his hourly rate of $125.48 and an annual salary of $261,000. 
In addition, the Petitioner has presented the following documentation in support of its claim that the 
Beneficiary has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration: (1) a printout from 
O*NET OnLine, providing wage data on "Physicians and Surgeons, All Other" in I INew 
Jersey, the Petitioner's office location; (2) a United States Bureau of Labor Statistics printout, listing 
the hourly mean wage and annual mean wage for surgeons in "General Medical and Surgical 
Hospitals"; (3) a printout from Foreign Labor Certification Data Center, stating that due to "limitations 
in the OES [Occupational Employment Statistics] data," the website cannot provide "[l]eveled wages" 
for surgeons in thel INew Jersey, area; and (4) a printout from indeed.com, indicating an 
average salary range for "physician bariatric surgeon[ s ]" in the United States who have reported their 
salaries to the website. 
Most of these documents relate to salaries of physicians and surgeons, but do not parse out specific 
information on the salaries of surgeons inl medicine. 1 According to the Petitioner's September 
2018 letter.I I medicine is the Beneficiary's primary, if not entire, practice. The letter states 
that he has worked as a surgeon providing "minimall -invasive surgical procedures" in I I 
medicine" and that he "fill[s] the need for farther care in the.__ ______ ___,] region." 
Salary evidence on surgeons who are not in .__ _ ____.medicine is therefore insufficient to demonstrate 
~1....:A..:.:c:..::c.::.;or:..::d:::.:in::.:.gc..:to::....:.:cth::.::.e..:..P-=.;et:::.:i t:;;.:;io:.:c:n.::.;erc.:..!,.l===I m:;;::e:..::d:;;.:;ic:.:c:in::.::e....:i::....s '....:'t;:;::he::....s::.i;p::.::.ec::.;:,;-ialty field of treating patients suffering from I 
.__I --------~I ~-----' 
3 
Matter of V-M-G-
that the Beneficiary "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix); Matter of Price, 20 l&N 
Dec. 953, 955 {Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (comparing a professional golfer's earnings with those of other 
Professional Golfers' Association (PGA) Tour golfers); Skokos v. United States Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser 
duties does not establish a proper basis of comparison); Crimson v. Immigration and Naturalization 
Service (INS), 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (comparing National Hockey League (NHL) 
enforcer's salary with salaries of other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. 
Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salaries of other NHL defensemen). 
The remaining relevant documentation, which is from indeed.com, provides avera~e salary 
information on bariatric surgeons, indicating that "[t]he average salary for 'physician I 
surgeon[s]' ranges from approximately $175,930 per year for Surgeon[s] to $227,401 per year for 
Hospitalist[s]." This evidence also does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies the criterion. First, 
the regulation requires the Petitioner to offer evidence showing that the Beneficiary has commanded 
a high salary or significantly high remuneration relative to others in the field, rather than a salary that 
is above average in his field. Second, the salary information from indeed.com is limited to those who 
reported their salaries to the website, and the Petitioner cannot confirm the accuracy of the self­
reported information. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the wage information it has presented 
constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. As such, it has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
annual salary and potential bonus constitute "al high salry" or "other significantly high remuneration 
for services" as compared to other surgeons in medicine. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of a one­
time achievement or his satisfaction of at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). It has also not established the acclaim and recognition required to classify him 
as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of "general and I lsurgery." Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of the Beneficiary's academic, scholarly, research, and professional accomplishments 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b){l){A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the smal I percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 See section 
203(b){l){A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 While the Petitioner has cited to our non-precedent decisions discussing foreign nationals' qualifications as individuals 
of extraordinary ability, these decisions were not published as a precedent and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in 
4 
Matter of V-M-G-
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not establish that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-M-G-, ID# 3751527 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts 
of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, 
and applicable law and policy. Specifically, the foreign nationals discussed in the non-precedent decisions were not in the 
same field as that of the Beneficiary, and had submitted documents that were qualitatively different than those in this case. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-T-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a strategic port planner, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not established that he is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise and had not shown that he met any of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and 
reconsider which the Acting Director denied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that the record shows his 
continuing intent to work in the area of expertise and establishes that he qualifies as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
Matter of G-T-C-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a strategic port planner with more than 25 years of experience 
in maritime and civil infrastructure development. The Acting Director concluded that the Petitioner 
had not shown clear evidence that he is coming to the U.S. to continue working in the area of expertise. 
Next, she held that the Petitioner had not satisfied at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to warrant a final merits determination. 
After reviewing the record in its entirety, we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated his 
intent to continue his work in the area of expertise, but he has not established that he meets at least 
three of the regulatory criteria, as required. 
A. Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Acting Director held in the initial decision and on motion that the Petitioner had not submitted 
clear evidence that he is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act states that the petitioner must show that he seeks to enter the United States "to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states 
that such evidence may include a statement "detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his 
or her work in the United States." 
2 
Matter of G-T-C-
In response to the Acting Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a statement 
regarding the need the United States has for specialist port planners. He states that his services have 
been in high demand in the country, and in his second statement submitted on appeal, he provides 
additional background information regarding the growth of his company, noting that over the last five 
years, he has "built a company that ... has managed to position itself as a leading provider of highly 
specialized consulting services to the ports, maritime and shipping industries around the world." He 
adds that his goal "has been to take [his company's] success, built initially in Australia before 
spreading out into Europe, to the United States and to assist the country and its industry to achieve its 
requirements in an ever-changing world." He notes that he "spent a great of time planning this," seeing 
"a clear and present market capacity gap in the U.S." The Petitioner indicates that his first major U.S. 
based project "was one of the largest port planning exercises to be undertaken in the U.S., the long­
term planning of the Ports of New York and New Jersey," noting that his accomplishments there led 
him to secure three other projects which are "three of the largest private investment transactions in 
U.S. ports and related infrastructure." We find that this evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
Petitioner intends to continue his work in the area of expertise to meet the requirements of section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Acting Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. Here, we find that the 
Petitioner has established that he meets the criteria for leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, the evidence in the record 
does not demonstrate that he meets the criteria for membership, published material, or contributions 
of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v), respectively.2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his membership in the 
World Association for Waterborne Transport Infrastructure (PIANC)3 and his position on the board 
of the .__ ___________ ___.· In the initial decision, the Acting Director held that while 
the Petitioner had established evidence of his membership in the PIANC, he had not shown that 
PIANC requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. Then, on motion, she held that the email chain 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in conducting the two-part review set out in Kazarian. He 
states that under the approach in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1234 (E.D. Mich. 1994), once three of the regulatory 
requirements are met, he has met prima facie eligibility and the burden of proof shifts to USCTS to demonstrate by "specific 
and substantiated evidence" why the petitioner is not qualified. Here, we need not address this claim because the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
3 The PIANC was originally known as the Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses. 
3 
Matter of G-T-C-
showing his acceptance of the board position for the~ did not equate to primary evidence of his 
membership. She also held that he had not otherwise shown that board membership required 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meet~J:his_qiterion through the documentation in the record 
regarding the distinguished background of the l__Jboard members and the secondary evidence he 
submitted regarding his~ membership, including his explanation for not being able to obtain 
primyv evi1ence. The Petitioner states that because the Acting Director did not discuss membership 
in th in the initial decision and only focused on the PIANC, he understood that it had been 
established that he met this requirement pertaining to the D On motion, however, the Acting 
Director held that the Petitioner had not met this criterion through his membership in the D The 
Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence related to his memberships, asserting that the 
documentation demonstrates that board membership on thec=J required outstanding achievements 
of its members as judged by national or international experts. 
We find that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof in establishing that he meets this criterion. 
The record contains an email chain between the Petitioner and I I regarding the 
Petitioner's acceptance of a position on theDboard, but the record does not demonstrate what 
criteria was used in extending the invitation to the Petitioner. The record contains an I I 
report from October 2016 stating that "c=J represents the major Australian logistics supply chain 
customers, providers, infrastructure owners and suppliers," adding that its members "span the entire 
supply chain, incorporating road, rail, sea, air, maritime and intermodal ports." However, the 
Petitioner has not provided evidence demonstrating that membership on the board for the ~ 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as determined by national or international experts 
in the field. 
We note that in the RFE response the Petitioner identified certain individuals on the board for theD 
along with their titles, contending that "only someone on par with the level of expertise and significant 
achievements as other board members would be asked to join the board." The Petitioner states that he 
met these "high qualifications of the board membership," noting that this is the reason he was invited 
to join the board. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence corroborating his claims regarding the 
qualifications of the other members of the board at Dor their outstanding achievements, and his 
unsupported statements are insufficient to establish eligibility. Here, we note that even though the 
Petitioner has identified members of the board and their job titles, a comparison alone to the other 
members of the board is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the board 
may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate thatOrequires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, to be appointed to its board. For example, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence of the organization's criteria for board membership or its 
selection process, or documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of those individuals 
judging him for admission. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has also not established that his membership in PIANC meets the 
requirements of this criterion. The PIANC website states that it is "the global non-political and non­
profit organisation providing guidance for sustainable waterborne transport infrastructure for ports and 
waterways," noting that "[ m ]embers include governments and public authorities, corporations and 
4 
Matter of G-T-C-
interested individuals." This webpage farther states, "PIANC Australia is one of the larger of the 25 
recognised national sections within PIANC internationally" with a "growing membership which 
currently comprises about 41 corporate members and 84 individual members." While the record 
contains an invoice submitted to the Petitioner from PIANC Australia, Inc., for the 2016 membership 
fees to establish his membership in this organization, the Petitioner has not provided additional 
documentation showing that this organization requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by national or international experts for membership. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Acting Director held that the publications in the record only quoted the Petitioner and do not 
constitute published material about him to meet the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner references articles published in the World Maritime News, Port Finance International, the 
Ports Australia Newsletter, and on voakl.net. Three of the four articles do not satisfy the requirements 
of the criterion as they do not identify the author. The article appearing on voakl.net, a blog dedicated 
to issues related to southern Auckland, does identify its author, but the record does not establish that 
the blog constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Furthermore, we 
note that none of the articles are about the Petitioner; one only briefly mentions his consultancy, while 
the others focus on projects and contain only a brief quote from him. Articles that are not about the 
Petitioner do not establish eligibility for this criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Pl umpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not 
about the actor). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Matter of Masri, 22 I&N Dec. 1145, 1148 
(BIA 1999). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. The Acting Director found that 
the evidence in the record did not support this criterion because the letters in the record from a former 
colleague and employers demonstrated that his work was highly regarded, but this evidence did not 
establish how it had significantly contributed to the greater field, beyond them and their customers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence, contending that the previously 
submitted documentation establishes his eligibility. He relies on seven letters from individuals in the 
same field, asserting that they are experts in the field and that the Acting Director erred in not 
5 
Matter of G-T-C-
considering all of them. While these letters attest to his expertise as a port planner, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate how his original contributions have impacted the field 
at large. Several of the letters focus on the Petitioner's consulting work related to the I I I I deputy director ofl l states in his letter, 
"the Long range Masterplan is one of the most important port planning exercises undertaken by I I which "will effectively guide the development in our port and terminal planning to ~ 
the future maritime trade needs of New York and New Jersey region over the next 30+ years." L_J 
~ identifies the Petitioner's contributions as a sub-consultant to I I the engineering consulting 
firm awarded the project, stating that "[ the Petitioner] was instrumental in the delivery of future fleet 
forecasting, future-state thinking, multi-terminal capacity analysis and the development of the various 
port plan options." He does not, however, describe how the Petitioner's individual contributions to 
thel project bid were of major significance to the field. 4 
,.......... ................................... i ..... n........,..a_l..,,e=tt..,.e.._r~from '--------~ the chief operating officer of the .... I _____ ___, 
.____..--______ ....,in Australia, he states that he directed the Petitioner to provide consulting to 
the Port of noting that this is "one of the largest import focused )i20rts in the southern 
hemisphere." .___ ___ _.indicates that the Petitioner "has been delivering all otf I jajorpT 
planning which includes commissioning him on several large transformational projects for " 
He then adds, "[t]here is no question that [the Petitioner's] ability and expertise is incredibly rare, not 
just in the maritime industry, but also in the wider engineering industry." The letter does not identify 
what specific ori&inal contributions the Petitioner made in providing consulting work for the Port of I ~ or for l I or how it impacted the field. 
I I principal consultant and senior I I project representative at I I an 
engineering consulting firm states that the I plan is a "high profile project" that is "one of the 
largest planning projects to ever be undertaken byl I' She states that although! ~s "one of 
the world's leading engineering consultancies, including significant market share of maritime and port 
engineering," she notes that "the company does not maintain senior port planning skills," relying 
instead on "specialist sub-consultants to deliver projects like these." I !indicates, "[the 
Petitioner] was very impressive to the I I when we bid for 
the project, due to his clear understanding of the global port planning industry and his track record in 
delivering strategic port plans around the world." She then asserts that "[t]he reality is that we would 
not have won the project without his primary involvement." While the letter describes the effect the 
Petitioner's work had onl lit does not establish how his work on the I I project bid 
represents an original contribution of major significance. 
'------_,~__.I farther expands upon the Petitioner's role by stating, "[h]aving then won the project 
alongside [the Petitioner's] company, he has been instrumental in enabling us to deliver a plan to I I that is both innovative and defendable." She notes that the Petitioner "delivered all [the 
company's] highly specialist port planning work including advanced maritime shipping fleet 
forecasting, trade analysis, terminal capacity modelling and analysis, development option planning 
and future state analysis." She indicates, "[t]his sort of service is well beyond typical engineering 
consultancy services and is pure specialist work." The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
4 We note thatl lalso indicates that the development of the master plan is ongoing and not expected to conclude 
until May or June of 2018. 
6 
Matter of G-T-C-
demonstrating how his work as a consultant to I I for the I I project has amounted to a 
contribution of major significance, apart from the benefit this provided to I I in its role on the 
project. "Contributions of major significance" means that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
Similarly, in a letter from I I senior partner and leader of the transaction advisory services 
at I lin New Zealand, he states that the company has "again teamed with [the 
Petitioner as art of a multidisci linar team to develop a long range port planning study for thee=] 
the largest port on the east coast of the U.S." He 
~a-ls_o_1 __ n-d-ic_a_t-es_t_h_a_t-th_e_P-et-it-i-on_e_r_'_'l-ed~--s-d_e_h __ v-e-ry~of the I I Study, which is one 
of the highest profile infrastructure planning assessments being undertaken in New Zealand." This 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has led high profile infrastructure planning, but the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating specifically what his original contributions are and how they amount 
to contributions of major significance. 
The record contains two letters froml I the director of~-------~- He 
states in his first letter that the Petitioner has been described by clients and colleagues as a "brilliant 
engineer," and that he " lanned, designed, and managed the deli r f m · r i il n in rin 
projects fo like the conceptual ground works for th;;:.e;;;..i... ___________ _____. 
~-----~ and the civil works for thel I hotel in.___ _ _. Georgia." He adds that the 
Petitioner has delivered maritime projects "including the planning and design of [the] I I 
marina," which he states, "when complete, will be one of the largest marinas in Europe." While these 
are again indicative of high profile projects, the record does not contain supporting documentation to 
establish specifically what the Petitioner's contributions ~ere and how they represent contributions of 
major significance in the field. While thel Jmarina and thel I projects appear to 
still be in progress, it has not been shown how his contributions have already amounted to 
contributions of major significance in the field. For the projects that have been completed, the record 
does not contain sufficient evidence demonstrating what his original contributions were and how they 
have constituted contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 5 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 6 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
6 Id. 
7 
Matter of G-T-C-
The Acting Director held that the letters discussing the Petitioner's role in the I I project did 
not establish how his role was leading or critical forD On appeal, the Petitioner highlights his 
role withl I and asserts that this establishes his leading role. I J the practice 
leader-maritime atl I states in his letter that he followed the Petitioner to the compry,I 
~that the Petitioner received the "prestigious~- lobal Practice Leader for Maritime." 
L__Jstates that while "[the Petitioner's] role in was a highly prestigious position in the 
maritime industry," his role as global director for "is one of the pinnacle positions in the global 
maritime practice." He states that in this role, the Petitioner "was tasked with building a new maritime 
practice in Australia and South Asia as well as developingLJs global maritime practice." The 
record contains articles about the firm establishing it has a distinguished reputation. This evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner satisfies the regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Acting Director held that the evidence in the record did not show that the Petitioner has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional 
documentation showing an offer of employment withl lin 2013, stating a salary of 
$252,000 and a $48,000 bonus. The record also contains a monthly base income pay statement from 
.__ _____ ____.~tating year-to-date income of$146,584, which the record reflects represents income 
for approximately half of the fiscal year. Documentation from the bis.gov website indicates that the 
top ten percent of wages for civil engineers in the United States was $132,880 as of May 2016. The 
record also contains documentation from the Professional Engineers Employment and Remuneration 
Report for 201 7 regarding salaries for engineers in Australia, demonstrating that the Petitioner's 
income is much higher than the upper quartile of the highest wage levels listed. The record contains 
an offer of employment wit~ I stating his salary as $249,840 (from July 1, 2013 to 
March 31, 2014 ), invoices from consultancy work that the Petitioner performed, and documentation 
from his personal bank account. This evidence sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise, but he has 
not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofG-T-C-, ID# 1883233 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF T-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 13, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a psychologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinaiy ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief mirroring her prior arguments made in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) that she meets four additional criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofT-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed employment as a program coordinator with.__ ______ ___. since 2018. 
Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
In denying the pet1t1on, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
a journal. In addition, she authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, as indicated above, the Petitioner repeats her arguments that she made in response to the 
RFE without addressing the Director's specific findings or identifying any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact. Regardless, we have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter ofT-B-
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to satisfy this regulatory criterion, a petitioner must establish her receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner's receipt of medals for the "Patriot of Russia" and "For the Promotion 
of Education" did not qualify for this criterion. Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the medals' recognition for excellence in her field, psychology. 
The record contains background infmmation reflecting that the "Patriot of Russia" and "For the 
Promotion of Education" medals "[are] awarded for a great contribution to the improvement of the 
system of patriotic education of Russian citizens and the implementation of patriotic education 
programs" and "for the significant expert and consultative activity in the field of education of youth." 
Here, the evidence indicates acknowledgment of the Petitioner's work in the area of education. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that her field of endeavor, psychology, recognizes the 
medals as national or international prizes or awards for excellence consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classffication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that membership in the association is 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 The Director found that the Petitioner's 
membership with the All-Russian Junior Academy of Sciences (ARJAS) did not qualify for this 
criterion, as she did not show that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a letter from of 
ARJAS, who indicated that membership requires: active participation in the organization, unique 
competence and support of gifted children, achievements in the development of ideas, knowledge of 
infmmational technologies, experience in the support and coordination of creative directors, and 
experience in authoring publications. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that ARJAS' 
membership requirements of participation, competence, knowledge, and experience rise to the level 
of "outstanding achievements" required by this regulatory criterion. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
establish that membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
1 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADIJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://v..rww.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distingnished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Matter ofT-B-
As such, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Director 
concluded that the citations to the Petitioner's published works, conference presentations, and 
recommendation letters did not establish her eligibility for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence showing that her cumulative citations for her 
published works received 69 citations, which included 24 self-citations, resulting in 45 independent 
citations. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations 
identifies which of her works represent contributions of major significance in the field. We note that 
aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record, rather than 
identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. In addition, the Petitioner did 
not articulate the significance or relevance of these citation numbers. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although her citations are indicative that her 
work has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that her citation 
numbers represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 4 Here, she has not sufficiently shown 
that her citations for any of her published articles are commensurate with contributions of major 
significance. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted three article excerpts that cited to her work. However, 
a review of those articles do not show the significance of her work in the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to her work. Likewise, the Petitioner provided evidence of her participation and 
presentation at conferences but did not demonstrate that they resulted in contributions of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The Petitioner submitted letters as evidence of her contributions. The record includes a letter from 
managing partner at I I LLC, who claimed that the Petitioner's 
"outstanding expertise in multicultural dialogue methodology provided a critical contribution to every 
phase of training development and implementation process" and "[t]he application of those 
technologies effectively results in the significant increase of quality of the multicultural dialogue 
which results in improved wellbeing and decreased cross cultural conflict and misunderstanding." 
3 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
Matter ofT-B-
However.I I did not provide specific details explaining how the Petitioner's contributions 
significantly impacted or influenced the psychology field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml _ _ ~. the deputy director of ~I --~ 
I I who indicated that the Petitioner developed and 
oversaw a child suicide prevention program that has "been successfully implemented" and "are now 
being followed by specialists nationwide and abroad." Again, I I indicated broad 
claims without detailed information showing that her model has influenced the field in a major way. 
Here, the letters do not contain detailed, probative information that explain how her original 
contributions are tantamount to major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has peiformed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's role with I I did not fulfill this criterion. As it relates to a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 8 
The letter from I I discussed above, indicated that the Petitioner was a program 
director. However, I Is letter does not establish that the Petitioner held a leading 
position, nor does it contain specific information signifying her essential role for the institution. 9 For 
instancej I did not describe the hierarchy and structure ofLJ and compare the 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have al ready influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
Matter ofT-B-
Petitioner's position as a program director to others within the institution overall. Moreover, while I I discussed the Petitioner's involvement with several projects, she did not show how 
those projects contributed to the success or standing otl I Further, although the Petitioner 
provided an unidentified document claiming to be about the mission and background of the institution, 
she did demonstrate thatl I enjoys a distinguished reputation.10 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofT-B-, ID# 3850200 (AAO Aug. 13, 2019) 
10 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionmy definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 14, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an art director and visual effects artist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least three of 
the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of M-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Petitioner is an art director and visual effects artist. As he has not established that 
he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record contains an article about 
the Petitioner and his work in the visual arts as well as documentation establishing that the article was 
published in a major medium. It also includes articles, letters of recommendation, and an award 
showing that his paintings have been displayed as part of the Societe N ationale des Beaux Arts' 
(SNBA) annual exhibition. 1 Accordingly, we agree with the Director that he has met the criterion for 
published material and for display. 
The record also establishes that the Petitioner meets the criterion for lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). It shows that, as a member of the United States delegation, he received the 2011 
Special Prize in painting given at thel I annual exhibition in D-The record includes media 
and letters showing that this prize is nationally recognized as an award for excellence in the visual 
1 Evidence in the record indicates that this was an artistic exhibition, as required. 
2 
Matter of M-M-
arts. Accordingly he has demonstrated that he meets the criterion for awards. Since he has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has worked "as an internationally recognized Art Director and Visual 
Effects Artist in the United States for nearly a decade." As mentioned, the record shows that, as a 
representative from the United States, he received the Grand Prize in painting at the I I annual 
exhibition at thel ~n 2011. The record also contains multiple letters of recommendation showing 
that the Petitioner has worked as a visual effects artist on commercials, movies, and television shows 
from 2014 through 2018. 3 The record, however, does not demonstrate that these achievements, when 
viewed in the totality, are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress or place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). 
Regarding his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, as discussed above the 
record establishes the Petitioner's receipt of such an award in the field of visual arts in 2011. While 
we do not question that this prize is widely considered to be a significant achievement for a visual 
artist, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his receipt of this single award approximately eight years 
ago is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Nor does the record as a whole reflect such acclaim or include extensive documentation 
demonstrating that his achievements have been recognized in the field. Id. 
As we note above, the Petitioner also met the criterion for published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). He offers three brief articles about his work in fine arts and visual effects published 
in La Stampa, L 'Espresso, and fl Venerdi di Repubblica, but establishes that only one of these 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3The record includes also screenshots from the website TMDb.com about the various television shows and commercials 
the Petitioner has worked on. and other evidence we have reviewed but do not specifically discuss here. 
3 
Matter of M-M-
publications, II Venerdi di Repubblica, represents a major publication. 4 The record also reflects that 
the Petitioner was interviewed about his work for the television show .__ __________ ____." 
a show appearing on the Italian television network RAI, but does not demonstrate that this network is 
a major medium. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a single qualifying article in a major 
medium published over two years ago is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Even considering 
the totality of the two additional articles and television interview, the Petitioner has not shown that 
this press coverage represents a level of success and recognition consistent with being among "that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(lii), thl record reflects that the 
Petitioner's work was displayed at the I I in 2011 as part of the artistic exhibition related 
to the prize discussed above. However, while we acknowledge the significance of that event, the 
record lacks evidence showing that the Petitioner remains nationally or internationally acclaimed 
based on his achievement over eight years ago, or demonstrating additional achievements that have 
received recognition in the field.6 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 
(3). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's memberships, he provides evidence confirming his membership with 
the Visual Effects Society (VES) and with the Associazione Effetti Visivi (A VFX). The record 
contains membership requirements for these associations, but they do not reflect that membership 
requires outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field.7 For 
example, VES requires that applicants "must be actively engaged in the production or creation of 
4 The record contains correspondence from the editors of La Stampa and L 'Espresso providing circulation statistics, as 
well as a printout entitled "Media tool kit" showing average circulation and website monthly visitors for these 
publications and selected others. However, these materials do not establish that either the on-line or print circulation of 
these publications is high relative to those with which they are being compared. See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 
602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 The Petitioner provides a document titled "Media tool kit" which lists viewing statistics for what appear to be different 
television stations. However, he does not indicate on which channel this interview aired, nor does he provide evidence 
demonstrating that his appearance on Community rises to the level indicative of national a;:;.::c=cl=a=im=.'------~ 
6 While the Petitioner provides Wikipedia pri?t outs related to two 2016 motion pictures, .___~~-----' and I I as well as the television show I,_ _____ ____.~' as evidence that his work has been displayed in a11istic 
exfobit10ns, these materials do not reference the Petitioner, establish that it was his work displayed in these media, or 
show that his work received recognition in the field. 
7 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); see also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 
Matter of M-M-
visual effects ... for not less than five (5) years." Similarly the correspondence from AVFX's 
president and co-founder states "we are looking for people that [have] worked in the industry for at 
least 5 years and have worked in internationally recognized and successful projects." Here the 
Petitioner has not provided evidence demonstrating that these associations limit their membership to 
individuals with renowned endeavors nor has he otherwise demonstrated the significance of these 
memberships such that they contribute to a finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner also asserts that he has served in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 As evidence of his leading role, the Petitioner 
provides multiple letters from employees of I 11 I andl I, organizational 
charts for each of these visual effects studios, and information about them establishing their 
distinguished reputations. Regarding his claim that he served in a leading role for these organizations, 
the record does not support his assertions. Each organization chart confirms that the Petitioner served 
as a lead compositor for several projects, and the accompanying letters indicate generally that, in this 
role, the Petitioner served as a freelance artist in charge of executing these projects. However, while 
the Petitioner led isolated projects, considered within the hierarchy of the organizational charts, the 
evidence does not demonstrate that he served in a leading role for the organization itself 
The Petitioner also references the abovementioned letters of recommendation in support of his claim 
that he served in a critical role for these organizations. While the letters reflect his work in the field 
on a variety of projects, they lack information demonstrating that the significance of his contributions 
are commensurate with those at the very top )2f bis field of' endeavor or that the_,._....""'-'-' ........... ~....,ht him 
national or international acclaim. For example'-· ____ _._ head of roduction fo asserts 
that the Petitioner "was the key element for the success of the........,,==------~----~ ~---------- which received the Gold prize at the D awards which "honor excellence 
in local, regional television across all screens."9 She does not indicate whether he was a named 
recipient on that award or provide detailed information to support her assertion crediting him with the 
success of the project. Nor does the record otherwise include evidence that, beyond I l the 
field has recognized the Petitioner's contribution to the production. I I chief executive 
officer ofl I similarly provides a detailed description of the Petitioner's contributions as a 
visual artist and describes his role on a specific project, but only asserts generally that his success in 
leading this project resulted in new business revenue. Here the evidence does not sufficiently 
distinguish his work from others in his field or show that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Therefore, this evidence does not 
support a finding that his contributions are indicative of a level of success consistent with being among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
8 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of M-M-
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-M-, ID# 3626108 (AAO Aug. 14, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a photographer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider evidence in the record. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
Matter of W-C-
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, published material about him and his work, and the authorship of scholarly articles 
in his field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that it meets the requisite three 
evidentiary criteria, but does not establish the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is one of that small percentage at the very top of the field of photography.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of five awards in the field of photography for which he was either 
selected or nominated. Because the plain language of this criterion calls for receipt of prizes or awards, 
nomination or selection as a finalist for an award is not considered qualifying under this criterion. 
Therefore, the evidence showing that he and his wife were "short-listed" for thel IA ward 
for photo books in 2016 forl l and for the 20161 I Photography A ward, does 
not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
1 The Director found that the evidence submitted under each of the evidentiary criteria claimed by the Petitioner included 
foreign language documents which were not accompanied by certified English translations as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(6)(3). Upon review, we have determined that unless otherwise noted, the foreign language documents in 
the record have been properly translated in accordance with the regulation. 
2 
Matter of W-C-
Also submitted was evidence that the Petitioner received two "Outstanding Works of Art" awards for 
the photographs he submitted to the I I Photography Exhibition in I I 2010. 
Supporting evidence indicates that they were among 80 such awards in the Art category that year, and 
that a single "Master Collection" prize and ten "Collection" prizes were also awarded. In addition, 
the evidence indicates that both the call for submissions for the exhibition and the announcement of 
the awards were posted on Tencent News, but does not provide sufficient information about the 
specific website or location where these notices appeared to support the degree of recognition these 
awards received. Further, the resumes of three other photographers who were awarded at the 
exhibition were also submitted, but only one of these resumes mentions the award. This evidence does 
not sufficiently demonstrate that these two awards received by the Petitioner are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
Evidence of two additional awards received by the Petitioner was also submitted. These are the 2015 ~ New Talent Award and the 2016 I I Emerging Photographers Award. This evidence 
indicates that the photographs submitted for both of these awards were judged by a panel of well­
known experts in the field, that the Petitioner's receipt of these awards received coverage in 
professional and major media, and that the work was subsequently displayed in public venues. As 
such, this evidence establishes that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class(fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Copies of several articles obtained from websites were submitted as evidence in support of the 
Petitioner's qualification under this criterion. Some of these, such as the two articles from Lens 
Culture, were not about the Petitioner and his work, either because they were written by him or because 
the focus of the material was a larger group of artists. Others, including materials from Vice China, 
IMA Magazine.I !Center, Xitek, and Guyu Report, are about the Petitioner and his work, and 
generally include examples of his photographs, but the evidence does not establish that all of these 
can be considered as professional, major trade or other major media. For instance, the material from I lcenter, which details a solo exhibit of the Petitioner's photographs in its gallery, originates 
from its social media page (WeChat.) But the evidence does not establish that the primary audience 
for this media consists of professional photographers, as opposed to art enthusiasts or the general 
public, or that this particular format generates sufficient readership to qualify as major media. 
Similarly, the media from IMA Magazine includes both a short article about the Petitioner which 
appeared in the print version and a longer version on its website. However, the evidence about the 
magazine indicates that it is written for photography connoisseurs and collectors rather than 
photographers, and that its relatively limited circulation does not reach a wide enough audience for it 
to be considered as major media. The evidence concerning the websites for Xitek and Guyu Report 
also include insufficient evidence to establish those media as one of the qualifying types under this 
criterion. 
3 
Matter of W-C-
The evidence from the media kit of VICE China, which indicates that its website and social media 
platforms have millions of subscribers and tens of millions of visitors, is sufficient to establish it as 
major media. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner meets this criterion based upon the article about 
him and his work which appeared in that publication. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from experts in the field, including professors, 
curators and fellow photographers. 2 I I of the University of I I 
.c=]writes that she encountered the Petitioner's workl I when it was exhibited at the 
L__jPhotography Festival in 2016, and has included imag~f af this work in her lectures about 
trends in photography. I I also states that she considers .... L ___ ___,_ as "part of the cutting 
edge of global artistic practice." 
Deputy Director of thJ I art museum in Beijing, indicates that he ~-----::-----=-:-:--------::----.==------=---. m~etitioner at the Photo ra hy Festival, and selected his work for a group exhibition 
atL_J in 2018. He writes that~ ___ _,"is an exceptional art practice in contemporary China," 
and compares it to the work of other "leading international artists." 
Another letter in the record is from I I a photography researcher and curator, who selected the 
Petitioner and his wife among eight artists for a project displayed in thel I Museum. 
Similarly J I explains how he selected! I for a solo exhibit atl lcenter. Other 
letters praise the Petitioner's work and confirm its display and awards received. 
These letters confirm that the Petitioner's original work I I has been awarded and displayed 
at artistic venues, but they do not establish that it is a contribution of major significance in the field of 
photography. In particular, while some of them compare this work to that of famous photographers, 
they do not suggest that it has influenced the work of other photographers or otherwise made an impact 
upon the field of photography. Therefore, this evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director found that the evidence of the Petitioner's books,.__ ______ ___, I I andl I did not meet this criterion because it did not 
establish their scholarly nature. The Director noted that scholarly articles are typically written for 
2 We thoroughly reviewed all of the reference letters in the record, but not all of the letters are analyzed in this decision. 
4 
Matter of W-C-
learned individuals and report on original research or philosophical discourse. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that this represents too narrow an interpretation of what constitutes a scholarly 
article, and that these books, as well as the Petitioner's article about I I which was published 
in Lens Culture, as comparable evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). That provision 
allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. 3 
When submitting evidence that it wishes to be considered as comparable evidence, a petitioner should 
explain why they have not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence they have included is "comparable" to that 
required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
Here, the Petitioner has in fact presented evidence which meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not explained why these materials, which consist in two cases of 
collections of personal photographs with an autobiographical narrative, should be considered as 
comparable to scholarly articles published in professional or major trade media or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence should be considered as comparable 
evidence under this criterion, or that it otherwise establishes that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets this criterion. Based upon the evidf nce of the display of 
the Petitioner's work in a solo exhibition at I . I Center, group exhibition at I Museum, 
and in several national and international photography festivals, we agree with the Director. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As detailed above, the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence and established that he 
meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will 
therefore evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of photographers at the 
very top of the field. In a final merits determination, we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether it is sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability. 
We first note that while the regulation requires sustained acclaim in order to demonstrate extraordinary 
ability, the evidence indicates that acclaim for the Petitioner's work has been relatively short-lived. 
Although his work was initially recognized in 2010 with what the record indicates were lesser awards, 
he did not achieve higher-level national acclaim until 2015, with I I receiving nationally­
recognized awards and appearing in solo and group exhibitions, mainly in China. Also, it is only this 
earlier work that has been recognized by prizes or awards; the Petitioner's later work, including his 
book.__ ____ __. and the material created for exhibition at the I IMuseum, has received 
some level of media attention, but the evidence does not demonstrate that it has been a critical or 
commercial success. For instance, a portion of I I was posted on the English language 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
4 Id. 
5 
Matter of W-C-
website of Sina News, which the evidence indicates "aggregates feeds from other news providers," 
and a "report of tax" states that the book has sold slightly more than half of the 5000 copies printed. 
But this evidence, which is not accompanied by readership or comparative sales data, does not show 
that the media attention or book sales relating to this work reached a level sufficient to establish 
national or international acclaim. 
Similarly, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner's solo exhibition of J I at I I Center, 
and the display o ~-----------------~in a group exhibition at the I I D Museum, both received some coverage in arts media in China. However, these exhibits took 
place in 2016 and 2017, respectively, and thus do not establish that the display of the Petitioner's work 
has garnered national or international acclaim over a sustained period. 
In addition, although the evidence of media coverage confirms that the awards the Petitioner received 
forl I were recognized on the national level, it does not establish that those awards were top 
awards open to all professional photographers. Both the 2015 □New Talent Award and the 2016 I I Emerging Photographers Award are limited to young or previously unknown 
photographers, 5 thereby excluding more experienced or well-known artists from consideration. This 
evidence does not therefore establish that the Petitioner is one of that small percentage at the top of 
his field, as opposed to one of the top few young or emerging photographers. 
Upon review of all of the evidence in the record, it is apparent that the Petitioner's photography has 
been noticed and appreciated in arts circles in China, and to a lesser extent in the general public. This 
includes reference letters from experts in the field who praise his work, describe him as a "promising 
young artist," and predict that he would continue to produce exceptional photography in the United 
States. However, the evidence of record does not establish that he has sustained acclaim as a 
photographer, or that he has risen to be one of the few photographers at the very top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, but a review of the totality of the evidence does 
not establish that he has achieved the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage of photographers at the very top of the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
5 The "call for photos" for the I I Emerging Photographers A ward statef-1baf one requirement is that entrants 
"having [sic] no experience of solo exhibition," and similar evidence relating to theLJNew Talent Award indicates that 
eligible entrants must be Chinese, younger than 35 years old and have used a Canon camera. 
6 
Matter of W-C-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of W-C-, ID# 3817161 (AAO Aug. 19, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-S-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a digital graphics designer, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that the 
Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a beneficiary has a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, a petitioner must provide documentation 
for an individual that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain 
media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if 
it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to a 
beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a digital graphics designer with the petitioning organization. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary had met only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria: leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Beneficiary also meets the following criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Upon review 
of all of the evidence, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets the eligibility requirements of this criterion based 
on the q Innovation award received by his company, I I for their project, I I I The Petitioner asserts that awards "granted to a company ultimately are an honor to and 
testament of achievement of its founders" and therefore, "[the Beneficiary] was the recipient of' the 
award. The record contains articles and recommendation letters that confirm the Beneficiary's role as 
one of the company's three members and co-founders. Regarding the company's receipt of the 2010 D Innovation award, the Petitioner refers to a letter from I I the director of c=] 
2 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
Innovation. He states that "[w]e crowned [the Beneficiary's] team in 2010 as the winners of the 
competition." Though I I indicates thatc=]Innovation is "France's biggest competition of 
Design Thinking aid Oren Innovation[,]" the Petitioner has not provided supporting documentation 
to establish that the Innovation award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. The Petitioner, for example, did not provide evidence, such as media articles, showing that 
winning this competition is tantamount to an award consistent with this regulatory criterion. 1 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains articles from various publications and websites, such as The Next Web, Venture 
Beat, Killer Startups, Obsession, Press Citron, and Silicon Maniacs. They discuss the Beneficiary's 
company,! I and its iPhone application that is described as a game that "involves a series of 
missions which you can choose to complete, by taking a photograph that fits a certain description or 
criteria." Users can create their own missions, encourage "other people to complete them, as well as 
complete other people's missions." While the articles reference the Beneficiary's role as co-founder 
and one of three members, they are not specifically about him. Rather, the articles discuss his 
company, only briefly mentioning the Beneficiary. For example, 'I I 
c===]" contains direct quotes from one of the company's other co-founders and members, I I 
r==:::::] but does not discuss the Beneficiary. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). As the 
Petitioner has not established that the articles are about the Beneficiary, we need not address whether 
the publications in which they appeared qualify under the criterion. 2 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record contains evidence, such as media articles and recommendation letters, showing that the 
Beneficiary has performed in a critical role for the Petitioner, an organization that has a distinguished 
reputation. Therefore, the Petitioner has demonstrated that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 In addition, we note that the evidence does not demonstrate the publications qualify as major media and they should be 
addressed in any future proceeding. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those 
performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos 
v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information 
for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grims on v. INS, 934 F. 
Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); 
Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player 
to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner indicates that at the time of the petition's filing in October 2017, the Beneficiary 
received an annual salary of $155,000. The record contains a letter from I I the co-founder 
and Senior Vice President of Operations for the Petitioner. I !confirmed the Beneficiary is 
employed as their Director of Design, and his salary was raised to $170,000 in April 2018. The 
Petitioner also submitted the Beneficiary's IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, that reflect 
earnings of $156,858 in 2017. Concerning the Beneficiary's job duties, I I stated that in his 
director role, he is "indispensable as a leader and mentor who imparts his vision to the junior 
designers" and it was his "successful effort to build an entire Department of Design" that led "to the 
change in his title from Chief Creative Designer to Director of Design." I I's letter indicates 
that the Beneficiary's duties are more closely aligned with a senior management position rather than 
the graphic design category. 
The Petitioner asserts that according to "[Department of Labor (DOL)] and industry data, [the 
Beneficiary] is paid a higher salary relative to others in his field." As evidence, the Petitioner refers 
to the DOL Office of Foreign Labor Certification Online Wage Library that shows the annual salary 
from June 2017 to July 2018 in the I IMetropolitan area ranged from $44,054 to $84,864 
for graphic designers and from $61,693 to $110,261 for multimedia artists and animators. The 
Petitioner also states that the DOL Career One Stop website reflects similar median salaries for graphic 
designers ($68,380) and multimedia artists and animators ($82,090). 
In addition, the Petitioner referred to survey data from Glassdoor, Linkedin, and Indeed as evidence 
that the Beneficiary "commands a high salary in relation to others in the field." For example the 
Petitioner claims that Glassdoor indicates the average annual salary of a graphic designer in theO 
I I Metropolitan area in 2018 was $73,367; Linkedin reflects the median base salary of"senior 
designer" was $100,000; and Indeed shows an average annual salary for a "senior graphic designer" 
as $92,928. 
However, as noted in the Director's denial, the comparative salary documentation in the record does 
not include data regarding average salaries for directors of graphic design, such as the Beneficiary, 
nor do they distinguish among differing levels of expertise, education, and years of work experience. 
Further, the 2018 Indeed documentation reflects salaries as high as $175,000 for senior digital graphic 
designers in the I I metropolitan area, which exceeds the Beneficiary's 201 7 salary of 
4 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
$155,000. Though the Petitioner contends on appeal that "the fact that highest paid Senior Digital 
Graphics Designers in 2018" are paid this amount proves that the Beneficiary's 2018 $170,000 salary 
is "a high salary" relative to others in the field, we disagree. As explained above, the evidence does 
not include sufficient comparative salary documentation for individuals with the Beneficiary's level 
of expertise and experience, and performing similar services as a director of graphic design, to show 
that his $155,000 annual salary at the time of filing satisfies the eligibility requirements of this 
criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the Beneficiary 
has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not 
just a salary that is above average in his field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
In addition, we note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility because it has failed to submit the 
required initial evidence of either a qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least 
three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address 
the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Beneficiary has the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
5 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of F-S-M-C-, ID# 3718065 (AAO Aug. 19, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-U-E-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 27, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jurist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in education. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, in which he 
must meet at least three, he did not show his sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. In addition, 
the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he has sustained the required acclaim and bas 
risen to the very top of his field, that he will continue to work in his area of expertise, and that he will 
substantially benefit the United States. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
Matter of R-U-E-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed his most employment as a professor at the Universidadl I inl l 
Venezuela. 1 Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(i),judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and scholarly 
articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner authored legal 
reference books. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the scholarly 
articles criterion. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the Director's 
findings that the Petitioner satisfied the awards and judging criteria. 
1 See the Petitioner's Form 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, filed concurrently with 
his Form 1-140. 
2 
Matter of R-U-E-
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion based on the "Medalla Dia Nacional del 
Abogado." In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes 
or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Because the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we 
will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
In his initial cover letter, the Petitioner claimed to have received the following awards: "Medal of 
Soldier Communication," "Grand Order of the Federal District- First Class," "Medal of Honor-First 
Class," "Medal of Honor -Second Class," "Merit of the Watcher," "Military Medal-Oder of the Air 
Force," and "Military Medal -~-------~" Although he submitted several foreign 
language certificates as evidence of his awards, the Petitioner did not provide any English language 
translations. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer evidence establishing that the military awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the education field. 
In response to the director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner made new claims of awards. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserted that he received the "Medalla Dia Nacional del Abogado" 
(National Lawyer's Day Medal) and the "Orden de la Defensa Nacional" (Order ofNational Defense). 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence showing that he received these awards. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish the claimed facts with unsupported testimonial evidence alone. 
Moreover, the Petitioner offered a screenshot from two websites reflecting that the "Medalla Dia 
Nacional del Abogado" is presented by the I I during the "National 
Day of the Lawyer" in Venezuela. Further, the Petitioner submiy~~ scree:shots from four websites 
regarding the issuance of the "Orden de la Defensa N acional" to I 
and Army General~------~ However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of endeavor, education. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
Matter of R-U-E-
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's membership with Ddid not qualify for this criterion. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner must show that membership 
in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
Initially, the Petitioner provided a copJ of his identity card confirming his membership with D. In 
addition, he offered screenshots from_ lcom reflecting the history 
anl backJround ofLJ However, the evidence did not demonstrate the membership requirements 
for As such, the Director requested the constitution or bylaws discussing the membership 
requirements. In response, the Petitioner did not address this issue or submit additional documentation 
for this criterion. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that membership withOrequires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, consistent with 
the regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of spectfication for which classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion based on judging a thesis and dissertation. 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 5 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner claimed that he judged theses and dissertations at the "Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela Public Ministry! t and submitted 
foreign language documents without any English language translations. See 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner asserted that he judged two doctoral theses at the 'I I and I !University" and offered a summary/excerpt translation for one foreign language document 
and no translation for the other. Because the Petitioner did not submit complete and accurate English 
language translations of the documents, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated 
material is accurate and supports his claims. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of R-U-E-
In addition, the Petitioner claimed that he has been a judge at the "Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela I I Division of Research and Post-Graduate 
Studies" and submitted a partial translation of a foreign language document informing him that he 
"will be part of the Examining Jury" in his role as a "methodological Work Advisor." Likewise, the 
Petitioner asserted that he "was pre-selected as a Candidate to be a judge of thel I 
I I by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela National Assembly of Judicial Nominations 
Committee" and offered a partial and summary translation of the foreign language documentation. 
Again, the Petitioner did not provide complete and accurate English language translations. 
Furthermore, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but 
also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specialization. 6 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he, in fact, participated on the examining 
jury or served as a judge on the judicial disciplinary court rather than being selected to judge. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he participated as a judge of the 
work of others. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to meet this criterion based on a critical role as an advisor for thel .... ___ ___. 
.__ _________ ....,.... in Venezuela. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate 
that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organizations or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 8 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted his credentials fromc=J reflecting his position as an 
advisor. In addition, he presented a memorandum informing him that he has "been desi nated to form 
part of the assembled team responsible for the Organizational Structure ofthe.__ _____ -----1 
I IProject." Further, the Petitioner provided an organizational chart showing that the 
falls below the "Supreme Court of Justice." 
Although the evidence indicates his role as an advisor, the Petitioner did not establish that his 
performance was critical to theD overall. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show if he ever 
completed the organizational structure project, and how it ultimately contributed to the success or 
standing ofc=] Moreover, while the organizational chart reflects the overall hierarchy, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how he significantly impacted the□ as his role as an advisor. Here, the 
Petitioner's evidence does not signify an essential role to 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 Ibe Petitioner iuitiaJJv claimed eligibility for this criterion based on leading and critical roles for the0 the ._I __ _. I I university," and the "Government ofl I" As evidence of his roles, he 
submitted foreign language documents without any English language translations. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03~3). Moreover, 
in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner argued his eligibility for only a critical role with thel__J 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of R-U-E-
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that D enjoys a distinguished reputation. 9 The 
Petitioner provided a screenshot indicating that "[ i ]n August 1999, the National Constitutional 
Assembly (ANC) declared a judicial emergency to reform the highly discredited judiciary" and "[b ]y 
the end of the year, 200 judges had been fired, mostly for corruption." Moreover, the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from websites regarding the mission, vision, and regulations o~ Further, 
while the Petitioner presented screenshots reporting on meetings and events bye=] the record does 
not reflect thatD garnered a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. Here, 
the evidence relates to the intended function and operation of Dwithout establishing its standing or 
prommence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 10 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the 
petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
9 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionmy definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
10 As the Petitioner had not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act we need not 
consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
6 
Matter of R-U-E-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-U-E-, ID# 3936097 (AAO Aug. 27, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF T-U-LLC Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 27, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a record label, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Beneficiary 
fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a beneficiary has a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, a petitioner must provide documentation 
for an individual that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain 
media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if 
it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to a 
beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Beneficiary serves in the position of creative director for the Petitioner in New York. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Beneficiary met the leading 
or critical role and high salary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix), respectively. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary also meets the awards, membership, published 
material, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). Upon review, we 
conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's prizes or awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
2 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
including, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented evidence that the Beneficiary and his 
coworkers received three Clio Awards for creativity in advertising or sports: gold in the "Experiential" 
category of the I I medium (2014 ), bronze in the "Experiential" category of the I I 
I O O I medmm (2014), and silver in the "Commercials 
category of the I I medium (2016). 3 While the record includes inform~a-t-io_n_a_b_o_u_t-th_e_C_l-io_A_w_a_r_d~s 
from its website and Wikipedia, and two articles in Forbes ~ 12015 and I I 2017) 
identifying multiple "Grand Clio" winners as those receiving "the biggest prize," the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's aforementioned gold, silver, and bronze awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 4 
In addition, the record indicates that the Beneficiary and his colleagues' entries were named as a 
"finalist" in the category at the 2014 Cannes Lions International Festival of 
Creativity, the~_~category at the 2014 New York Festivals International Advertising Competition, 
and the 2014 "Cannes Young Lions" film competition (Germany). With the appeal, the Petitioner 
provides coverage from Business-Standard.com D 2017) and CBSnews.com Q 2018) 
describing Cannes Lions as "the Oscars of advertising," but these articles do not discuss ThtC I 
Lions" film competition, the Beneficiary's creative work, or the significance of being recognized as a 
"finalist." While the aforementioned competitions included participants from multiple nations, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Beneficiary's standing as a 
"finalist" constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
field. 5 
Furthermore, the Beneficiary and his coworkers' advertising projects received a prize for "distinction" 
in the I ~gory at the 2014 Art Directors Club (Germany) competition for their I I I ~---- advertisement. This I O I advertisement was also selected for a Favorite 
Website Award (FWA) "of the day" by TheFWA.com and for "Site of the week" by Awwwards.com. 
Additionally, the record shows that the Beneficiary and two others shared a silver trophy at the 2011 
Art Directors Club Junior Competition. Moreover, he was among hundreds of individuals who 
received an Applied Arts Student Award in 2011. Although the Petitioner provided screenshots and 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 Clio Awards include six recognition programs for creative businesses in "advertising, sports, fashion, music, 
enteitainment, and health." See https://clios.com/about, copy incorporated into the record of proceedings. For example, 
in 2014, the Clio Awards recognized 1,215 advertising entries, 199 spolts entries, 174 fashion entries, 372 entertainment 
entries, and 126 health entries. In addition, the record indicates that multiple gold, silver, and bronze Clio awards are 
presented in each specific category. 
4 The coverage in Forbes may demonstrate that the small number of"Grand Clio" prizes are nationally recognized, but the 
Beneficiary was not a "Grand Clio" recipient. Rather, the Beneficiary was among thousands who annually receive a gold, 
silver, or bronze Clio award. 
5 The issue here is not the national or international scope of the Beneficiary's competitions, but rather whether his specific 
awards are "nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field." 
3 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
other information from the competitions' organizers regarding these awards, it did not offer sufficient 
evidence of their national or international recognition for excellence in the field. For instance, the 
screenshot from Applied Arts claimed that "[t]he student winners chosen by our judges are definitely 
up-and-comers worth keeping an eye out for," but such information is insufficient to demonstrate that 
the aforementioned award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field. The Petitioner has not established therefore that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on membership with the XH 
Collective (XHC) and the One Club for Art and Copy (OCAC). In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 6 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted letters from XHC and OCAC 
identifying the Beneficiary as a member and screenshots from the associations' websites. Although 
the screenshots relate to the background and history of XHC and OCAC, the Petitioner did not provide 
their membership requirements, so as to demonstrate that they require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the field consistent with the regulation at 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains various screenshots that mention .__ ________ ~_....., a portfolio site 
created by the Beneficiary and .__ ______ _. to promote their work. These screenshots 
fromCreativity-online.com, AdWeek.com, AdRants.com, MediaBistro.com, Businesslnsider.com, 
www.ddb.fr, and www.page-online.de did not include a full copy of the articles discussing the 
Beneficiary's work. Moreover, the authors of the aforementioned material were not identified, nor 
has the Petitioner presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that these websites' 
readership elevates them to major media relative to other publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner presented screenshots about branding, marketing, and design projects for 
various companies, organizations, and products, such as the National Basketball Association (NBA), 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Vodafone, Mercedes Benz, and Riot Raki, rather than published material about the Beneficiary. 7 
Articles that are not about a beneficiary do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 8 In fact, many of these screenshots never mention the 
Beneficiary, let alone reflect published material about him. Finally, the record does not show that any 
of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were about the Beneficiary, appeared in major media, 
or identified an author. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
For this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an August 2014 letter from the office manager for "Miami 
Ad School Europe inl I" Germany, stating in full: "Herewith confirm that [the Beneficiary] 
hold [sic] several lectures at Miami Ad School Europe and judged as well the quarterly exhibitions." 
In addition, the record includes an undated letter from ~----___.cofounder of 1 I 
inl t Russia, asserting that she is "teaching the creative talents of Russia at MADS School."9 
I I indicated that in her position at MADS School, she "founded the MADS Award that 
honors the best work among the young talents. To do that I gather the best creatives in our industry 
and judge their work on a yearly routine. On this regard I confirm that [the Beneficiary] has judged 
the MADS award in 2013."10 
The aforementioned letters, however, did not discuss whose work the Beneficiary judged or the 
specific projects he evaluated. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not offer information about the MADS 
School, its academic programs, or the area of focus for the MADS A ward program. Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary's activities with MADS School and 
Miami Ad School Europe constituted his participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the field, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
7 We acknowledge that several of the news outlets covering these projects are major media (such as USA Today and Dailv 
Mail), but their material was not about the Beneficiary. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about the 
Beneficiary relating to his work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom he or 
she is associated). 
9 Her letterhead, however, is not from the MADS School. 
10 The record also contains a letter prepared byl I, an associate professor at the School of the Art Institute of I pffering "an independent evaluation of the professional credentials" of the Beneficiary. He contends that the 
Beneficiary was selected to serve as a judge for Miami Ad School Europe quarterly exhibitions and the MADS Awards, 
but does identity the particular evidence upon which his conclusions are based. 
5 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that the beneficiary has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field.11 For example, a petitioner may show that a 
beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether the Beneficiary has 
demonstrated original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's I campaign for the NBA ' 
campaign for Vodafone, I I campaign for Mercedes Benz, .__ _____ __. m1trnt1ve, I !artificial intelligence art project, and I !data marketplace project represent 
artistic contributions of major significance in his field. 12 In support of this claim, the Petitioner points 
to awards that these campaigns received, media coverage relating to the Beneficiary's advertising 
projects, and letters of support from others in the field discussing his work. 
With respect to awards received by creative projects undertaken by the Beneficiary and his colleagues, 
the Petitioner has not shown that these awards reflect that his advertising work has risen to the level 
of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As discussed under the 
awards criterion, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international recognition or 
significance of the Beneficiary's awards in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown, for 
example, the substantial impact the Beneficiary's advertisements and digital media work have had in 
the greater field or explained how they are otherwise majorly significant in the creative direction field. 
Regarding media coverage of the Beneficiary and his colleagues' advertising projects, the Petitioner 
provided various articles describing the NBA I ~" Vodafone 'I ~" and Mercedes Benz I I commercials. The Petitioner, however, has not shown that the Beneficiary's creative 
direction work on these projects has received attention from the press in a manner indicative of major 
significance in the field. For example, al 12016 article in USA Today discussed how the NBA 
released a new commercial to promote its Saturday night games. This article did not mention the 
Beneficiary or discuss how his specific work on that commercial represents an original contribution 
of major significance in the field of creative direction. Likewise, the record includes a I I 2016 
article from ShootOnline.com entitled "Top Spot of the Week: NBA's I I Directed bye=] 
,__ __ ___,I While this article has a "credits" section that listed the Beneficiary among more than 25 
other contributing staff: it did not speak to his particular art direction work or explain its major 
significance in the field. The record contains additional articles showing that the Beneficiary's 
advertising and promotional projects have garnered media attention, but these articles did not 
demonstrate that his original work has widely influenced others in the advertising industry or 
otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the creative direction field. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
12 While the Beneficiary worked on these adveitising campaigns, we note that many other staff also contributed to these 
projects. For example, 13 other employees rrom the Petitioner shared the NBA I I campaign Clio Sports silver 
award with the Beneficiary in 2016. 
6 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
As farther evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner asserts that letters written on the Beneficiary's 
behalf affirm "the significance and originality of his work." Although these letters confirmed his work 
on advertising projects and praised his talents and abilities, they did not explain or indicate how his 
creative work rises to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field. 13 For 
instance, I I executive creative director for I I a diJital creative 
agency, noted that he tutored the Beneficiary "in his final quarter at Miami Ad School in I 
He farther stated: "I vouch for his superb skills in art direction and conceptual thinking. I'm following 
his work ever since and love his personal work as well as his well thought campaigns for big brands 
such as Mercedes Benz or Vodafone." Whilel I mentioned the Beneficiary's advertising 
projects for clients such as Mercedes Benz and Vodafone, he did not provide specific examples of how 
the Beneficiary's work on their campaigns has widely affected the industry or has otherwise risen to 
the level of contributions of major significance in the creative direction field. 
In addition,~-------~ managing director ofl la German communication agency, 
asserted that the Beneficiary's "ability to craft storytelling is uniquely persuasive and effective. His 
use of digital media in his campaigns is exquisite and always well crafted. Moreover, he is incredibly 
adept at the difficult task of cross-culture advertising." Here,~------~ did not articulate 
the significance of the Beneficiary's work in the greater field. Further, having a diverse, unique, or 
special skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Beneficiary has already used those skills and abilities to impact the 
field at a significant level, which has not been shown. 
Furthermore, with regard to the Beneficiary's i I' project, I I I, managing director 
of I I an advertising agency, stated that the Beneficiary and his partner in the Y P 
Collective experimented with the concept of using data as a modem-day currency. 
explained that "they convinced the shop-owner of an exclusive high-fashion boutique in ~--~to 
let them do a pop-up in his premium foot-trafficked shop. They created the first supermarket in the 
world where customers paid for groceries with I I data. It was calledl I' :While this 
project garnered media attention for its novelty, the record does not show thatl lexpanded 
to other stores in Germany or elsewhere, or otherwise had a meaningful impact to the overall field. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's 'I I' initiative and I I artificial intelligence 
art project, the remaining letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record 
include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate that his work on these projects has been 
considered to be of major significance in the field ofcreative direction. The language of this regulatory 
criterion requires that the Beneficiary's original contributions be "of major significance in the field" 
rather than mainly affecting his employers or clients. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes 
original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
13 While we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility under this 
criterion. For the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient 
documentary evidence showing that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiar has erformed in a leadin or critical role for its 
organization~-------------------------~ and TEDxMunster. 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a beneficiary is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 14 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a beneficiary's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is 
or was critical. 15 
While the record includes letters of support from the above organizations discussing the Beneficiary's 
work, these letters do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying his essential roles to the organizations.16 For instance, I~----.====;,' 
TEDxMunster licensee and co-orsanizer, stated: "We hereby confirm the parti i I I, the Beneficiary], andl Ion sta e at TEDxMunster 
on 2014 with their TEDx Talk .__ ________________ _. ,,, 
.__ ____ _. statement, however, did not discuss how the Beneficiary's role was leading or critical 
or critical for TEDxMunster. 
In additionJ I the Petitioner's chief operating officer, stated that in his position as creative 
director, the Beneficiary "is responsible for overseeing integrated advertising campaigns from 
conception to completion. This requires him to make critical decisions about ~he content tone, and 
voice of brand messaging for our artists across multiple mediums .... " While[ !indicated 
that the Beneficiary has oversight responsibilities for certain advertising campaigns, he did not explain 
how the Beneficiary's role is leading or critical to the company overall. 
Furthermore, I I chief executive officer, I I JI asserted that he met the Beneficiary "in 2010 when he interned at I I ~and that the Beneficiary "stood out from the other interns in terms of motivation and skill." 
lr===~-.lfurther noted that the Beneficiary "worked on brands such as Ariel and successfully helped 
pitch for clients such as the Coca Cola owned energy drink " but the record does not show that 
the Beneficiary's intern position was leading or critical for 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
is Id. .__ _________ __. 
16 Id. (stating that letters rrom individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a beneficiary's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
17! Is letter explains that "TEDx is a program oflocal, self-organized events that bring people together to share 
a TED-like experience." "TED talks" focus on "Technology, Entertainment and Design." 
8 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Moreover! I former creative director atl L stated: "[The Beneficiar worked 
~team on the international Mercedes Benzi !account -rnostl on and 
L___J campaigns. I worked closely with him and his creative partner~------~and 
supervised his development." I lforther indicated that the Beneficiary "constantly tried to 
push the boundaries of Mercedes Benz brand communication" while working on that account, b~ 
statements are not sufficient to show that the Beneficiary's role was leading or critical role forL_J I !overall. 
Although the aforementioned letters confirmed the Beneficiary's employment and discussed his work 
on various projects, they did not contain detailed, probative information demonstrating the specific 
nature and outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. Furthermore, the remaining letters 
discussing the Beneficiary's work forl land I I did not explain how his 
positions were leading compared to the other creative staff working for those organizations, nor did 
they indicate that the Beneficiary's creative roles were of significant importance for the companies' 
success or standing in the industry so as to demonstrate a critical role. 
Finally, this regulatory criterion also requires that a beneficiary perform in a role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation.18 While the record contains cornpan] information 
from the websites of the Petitioner's sister company, I 11 J I I I andl I this self-promotional documentation is not sufficient to demonstrate that 
these organizations have a distinguished reputation. Moreover, as discussed under the awards 
criterion, although the Petitioner presented evidence of the Beneficiary's companies' receipt of various 
awards, he did not sufficiently demonstrate their significance or relevance. Here, the Petitioner did 
not submit sufficient evidence portraying the aforementioned organizations' standing in the field. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Although the Director found that the Petitioner also meets this criterion, the record does not support 
that conclusion. Therefore, for the reasons discussed below, the Director's determination on this issue 
will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented a July 2017 letter stating that the Beneficiary's "annual base salary is 
$150,000" and pay statements reflecting his earnings inl I In addition, the record 
includes a screenshot from Salary.corn showing that the median salary for creative director is 
$116,137.19 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence showing that the Beneficiary has earned 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not just a salary 
that falls in the top half of his field. Without information comparing the Beneficiary's earnings to 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition 
of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
19 This screenshot, however, did not identify the geographic region from where this salary information was collected. 
9 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
high salaries of creative directors in the~I ---~I metropolitan area, the Petitioner has not established 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Beneficiary is not eligible because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence 
of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, 
we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a finding that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of the Beneficiary's work are 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
10 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofT-U-LLC, ID# 3818208 (AAO Aug. 27, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5463151 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 4, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician specializing in pediatric intensive care, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a consultant, pediatric intensivist, and assistant professor at ~I ----~I University 
Hospital at.__ ____________ __,Saudi Arabia. 
The Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, relating to participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and publication of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner 
claimed to satisfy two other criteria, discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted photographs of various recognition plaques and copies of certificates. We agree 
with the Director's finding that the Petitioner had not established "the 'significance and scope' of the 
prizes." 
Many of the plaques are internal faculty awards from D recognizing various activities the Petitioner 
performed there such as updating guidelines, "supervising curriculum changes," and unspecified "active 
contribution to the success of academic accreditation activities." The inscriptions on other plaques 
indicate that the Petitioner received them for participating in various medical conferences. The Petitioner 
did not show that these plaques are nationally or internationally recognized awards, or that he received 
them for excellence in the field of endeavor rather than for participation in specific projects or tasks. 
After the filing date, the Petitioner has continued to receive similar awards fromO but the record does 
not show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized, or that anyone who is not working 
at~is eligible to receive those awards. 
Rather than submit evidence that his awards are recognized outside of D, the Petitioner asserted that 
Owas one of the first accredited universities in Saudi Arabia, and that its "College of Medicine is 
among the leading national medical schools .... Therefore, the awards and recognitions awarded to [the 
Petitioner] byl !University are nationally significant." The conclusion does not follow from the 
premises. The Petitioner did not establish that the wider medical field, nationally or internationally, takes 
2 
notice of the prizes thatOawards to its own faculty members. The overall reputation of the awarding 
entity does not, by itself, confer national or international recognition on honors that the entity bestows on 
its employees. 
A "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Saudi Pediatric Association (SP A) recognized the Petitioner's 
"outstanding accomplishment by establishing and organizing the first SPA-endorsed National Childhood 
Safety Campaign" in 2017. The Petitioner did not establish that the certificate is nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
Another "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Saudi Patient Safety Center reads, in part: 
"Congratulations for being recognized as a nominee for 2018 National Patient Safety." A nomination is 
not a prize or award, and the Petitioner did not show that he won the award for which he was nominated. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has received nationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in his field of endeavor. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner stated that he "has made ori inal scientific contributions to the field of Pediatric Intensive 
Care by contributing to research 
sets him apart from his peers." The Petitioner was one of 53 authors of' 
~--------_,," a 2015 paper that had been cited more than 160 times as of the filing date. 
Quoting part of the article's title, as above, does not sufficiently identify the Petitioner's contribution. 
This article, like most of the Petitioner's cited work, was a product of the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD), a series of collaborations described by the GBD secretariat as "an international network of more 
than 1,000 individuals, based in over 100 countries." The GBD collected data from institutions around 
the world, and published articles with dozens or hundreds of co-authors. 1 The Petitioner's participation 
1 At the time of filing in December 2018, the Petitioner documented 549 citations of 20 published articles. Most of those 
citations pertain to GBD articles. The majority of the citations ( 445 out of 549, or 81 % ) relate to three GBD articles with 50 or 
more co-authors. For the most-cited article, discussed above, the Petitioner was one of587 named co-authors. The Petitioner's 
published articles outside the GBD collaborations earned an aggregate total of60 citations at the time of filing. The Petitioner's 
two most-cited non-GBD articles accumulated 28 and 13 citations, respectively; seven others had between 1 and 5 citations 
each. On appeal, the Petitioner notes that citations have increased since the time of filing, but the updated figures still skew 
heavily toward GBD articles. 
3 
in a massive global collaboration is not, itself, an original contribution of major significance, and he did 
not identify his specific contributions to the highly-cited GBD articles. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner showed that he has a ResearchGate score of 31.94, 
which "is higher than 90% of ResearchGate members." On appeal, the Petitioner showed a 'Total 
Research Interest score" of 1710, which is "[h]igher than 98% of researchers in Emergency Medical 
Care." The Petitioner did not submit evidence or information to put this score into context. For instance, 
the Petitioner did not show how the scores were calculated, or establish that ResearchGate members are 
a representative cross-section of the field. We note that it is not evident from the record that the 
Petitioner's specialty is "Emergency Medical Care." More significantly, the scores do not identify any 
original contribution by the Petitioner. Without the necessary context, the ResearchGate information has 
minimal weight in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner stated that he: 
is the first to establish a national registry of DNA with a lab for multicenter genetic 
research for children withl I ... [The Petitioner's] development of this 
DNA registry is the only genetic registry for this disease in the region . . . . [The 
Petitioner's] contribution ... significantly impacted public health in the region and 
globally. 
(Emphasis added.) The phrase "in the region" implies that other such registries already existed elsewhere. 
The Petitioner did not explain how establishing a registry in a different location is an original contribution, 
or submit evidence to show that it has already "significantly impacted public health ... globally." 
The Petitioner also stated that he "is an expert in medical informatics applications and the customization 
of the electronic health records (EHR)." The Petitioner continued: 
[The Petitioner] obtained a certificate on the Essentials of Health Informatics ... from I !University and.._ _______ __. University. [The Petitioner] was 
selected by the Pediatric Department to lead the EHR Taskforce ... which played a major 
role in the successful implementation of the new EHR system. This has resulted in his 
health care facility becoming the first hospital in Saudi Arabia to adopt these ethnicity­
specific normal measurements, resulting in improved patient care. 
The Petitioner did not explain how implementing an EHR system constitutes an original contribution, 
rather than applying existing methods in a new location. The above quotation indicates that the Petitioner 
acquired the necessary skills at the same university where he implemented the system. 
Letters from colleagues and collaborators likewise attest to the Petitioner's introduction of existing 
methods to Saudi Arabia, and to his diligent efforts in improving education and care at the institutions 
where he has worked while also conducting useful research. These efforts may well have improved local 
health care and added to the general pool of knowledge in the Petitioner's specialty, but the Petitioner and 
his colleagues do not explain how they constitute original contributions or have major significance with 
respect to the field as a whole. 
4 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not identify any specific original contributions that he 
showed to be of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of his work at KSU are indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Therefore, the appeal will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-Z-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: DEC. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery . 1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met four of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets an additional criterion, and has 
sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 In addition to the instant petition, the Petitioner has filed a second petition seeking classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. That second petition remains pending at the time of this 
decision. 
Matter of S-Z-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirement. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirement, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been a professional embroiderer in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery since 2011. He seeks to continue his work in the field of Uzbek traditional 
embroidery in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of 
his field. For the reasons discussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the initial evidentiary 
requirements. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled four of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with the Director's determination regarding the display criterion. The 
Petitioner has offered diplomas from the Mayor of the City ofi I and the Head ofi I 
2 
Matter of S-Z-
Regional Department of the Uzbekistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, indicating that the 
Petitioner exhibited his embroidery at the municipal and regional level competitions of the I I 
(Initiative) -2012 Contest. However, for the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with the 
Director's finding as it relates to the membership, judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and we conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record does not support this finding. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion, based upon his membership in the I I 
Association of Artisans, Craftsmen and Folk Artists of the Republic of Uzbekistan. The record 
includes a membership certificate and two letters issued by the Head of the I !Department of 
the association,! I The letters state that the Petitioner has "foll association membership" 
in the association and that it "requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk art," in the Petitioner's 
case, "Uzbek traditional artisanal embroidery." The Petitioner also submitted a letter from D 
I lof the association, stating that it "is open only to highly skilled masters who are 
among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art." The letter 
provides that the Petitioner's membership was recommended bvl I and□ I I The record farther contains resumes for I I 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. While 
the letters froml I andl I contain language that mirrors the regulation, neither 
those authors nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim 
that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution, bylaws, or 
other official documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional 
evidence that accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection 
process, conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
See 1756, Inc. v. United States Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements). 
Moreover, although the record includes resumes for I I and I I the 
individuals who I I asserts recommended the Petitioner for membership in the I I 
Association, the documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international 
experts in the field. I Is resume indicates he was the head of two art museums and was a 
professor of museology and art history inl I and that his "scholarly articles and brochures" 
include two works on traditional embroidery. I l's resume indicates she teaches tour 
guides inl I and is a member of the organizing committee of the I !Festival. Those 
3 
Matter of S-Z-
uncorroborated resume documents are insufficient to confirm the individuals are qualifying experts in 
the field. Similarly, although I I claims that I I and I I are 
nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or offered sufficient 
evidence in support of his statement. Finally, even if the submitted evidence did demonstrate the 
expertise and recognition o~ I and I I a comparison alone to the other 
members of the association is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the 
association may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that membership inl I 
requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Based on the above reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record does not suoport this finrngj 
The record includes a letter issued by the Head of thel I Department of [ I ~-~I, that "thanks the member of the association -[ the Petitioner] -for participating" in the 
association's 2011 'I I' exhibition fair. It notes that the Petitioner "has participated in 
national and international exhibitions many times with his artistic products." However, the letter from I I does not assert or establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of the work of 
others in the field. 
The Petitionr also submittr an undated letter issued by the Head of thel lnepanment of I I ~----~ thanking the Petitioner for "his help in determining craftsmen, artisans 
and painters, who were invited" to the 2014 "Art in Uzbekistan" exhibition. That letter does not 
establish in what manner providing help in determining what artists were invited to the exhibition 
equates to participating as "a judge" of the work of others in the field. The plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence demonstrating that the petitioner has 
participated as "a judge of the work of others." The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in 
a judging capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). There 
is no evidence demonstrating that in the performance of that role the Petitioner actually judged the artwork 
and made final selections for the exhibition, rather than, for example, merely assisting with general 
administrative functions of the exhibition. 
Moreover, there is no documentary evidence showing the specific exhibitions judged by the Petitioner, 
the dates of his participation, and the names of the artists whose work he specifically selected. Merely 
submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner judged the work of others without evidence 
showing who he judged and their field of specialization is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
criterion. Rather than submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge for the 2014 "Art in Uzbekistan" exhibition sponsored byl l the 
Petitioner instead submitted a brief: undated statement from I !attesting to the Petitioner's 
involvement. There is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific assessments and 
the names of the artists whose work he evaluated. 
4 
Matter of S-Z-
Moreover, if testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this 
instance, the record does not include primary evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as 
a judge for that contest. A petition must be filed with any initial evidence required by the regulation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The nonexistence or other unavailability of required evidence creates a 
presumption of ineligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(2)(i). When relying on secondary evidence, the 
petitioner must provide documentary evidence that the primary evidence is either unavailable or does 
not exist. Id. When relying on an affidavit, the petitioner must demonstrate that both primary and 
secondary evidence are unavailable. Id. In this instance, the petitioner has not demonstrated that 
primary evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge does not exist or cannot be obtained. 
Accordingly, the undated statement froml I does not comply with the preceding regulatory 
requirements. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that reference letters offered in support of this criterion establish that 
"[the Petitioner's] art has substantially influenced his field of endeavor." 
Letters froml I a K-12 art teacher, an~ l a fine artist and gallery 
coordinator, state that they are familiar with the Petitioner's work as an "accomplished traditional 
Uzbek embroiderer" and provide that he has "made [a] contribution of major significance to this field 
by virtue of his mastery of Uzbek traditional embroidery techniques and by adaptation of these 
techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." In addition, they claim that the Petitioner's "use of 
the thick needle technique as well as his ability to combine various traditional styles in a single piece 
constitute a contribution of major significance in the field of traditional Uzbek embroidery." 
A letter from I I a K-12 art teacher, provides that the Petitioner's contributions "to the art 
of embroidery, decorative art, and cultural traditions of Uzbekistan are of major importance as they 
have and will continue to influence the work of other artists" and that "[m]any of his unique creations 
have been displayed and sold at major exhibitions in Uzbekistan and Central Asia." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss his work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and appreciated, they do 
not explain how, specifically, his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of"contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by others in the field. The documents in the 
record, including those not specifically mentioned, primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's 
5 
Matter of S-Z-
status in the field without providing specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level 
consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
an individual's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy 
this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he meets the requirements of this criterion based upon evidence 
submitted of "articles and a book published by the Petitioner in major and/or professional media." The 
record includes copies of several pages of the book, that list the Petitioner as "developer." 
According to two letters from I I, the head of the publisher of the book, the 
Petitioner is also the author of the book and the book "was published in 350 copies and distributed 
among regional libraries." The record also includes evidence that the Petitioner has authored three 
articles that were published, respectively, in the newspaper Buxoroyi Sharif, and the magazine 
Education and Upbringing, and presented at the the 2014 Scientific-Practical International 
Conference of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Uzbekistan. 
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he has not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. In general, scholarly articles report on original 
research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
expressed in the article. 2 Usually, scholarly articles are written for learned persons in that field. In 
this case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated thatl land the articles (which are each between 
one and three pages in length), without footnotes, endnotes, or bibliographies, qualify as scholarly. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. For example, he has offered a letter from the chief editor ofBuxoroyi Sharif stating that 
"[t]he circulation of Buhoroi Sharif is 500 printed copies." He also provided a letter from the chief 
editor of Education and Upbringing, indicating that the publication "has the circulation of 4,000 
copies." Finally, he submitted a letter from the head of the Academy of Sciences, stating that the 
annual Scientific-Practical International Conference "provides more than 100 scientific articles in 
different areas. All articles of the conference were published in one collection, with a circulation of 
1,000 printed copies." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that based on the circulation data, these 
publications qualify as major media. In addition, he has not presented adequate documentation 
confirming they constitute either professional or major trade publications. Based on the above reasons, 
the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
6 
Matter of S-Z-
B. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-Z-, ID# 4316395 (AAO Dec. 4, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1929753 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 4, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marketing and advertising manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the 
benefit sought. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records indicate that the Petitioner filed a new 
Form I-140 prior to filing this appeal, in which he also requested classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The Director of the Texas Service Center approved that petition on November 
30, 2018. As the Petitioner has an approved Fonn I-140 in the requested classification, further pursuit 
of this matter is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1852444 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 5, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, he did not establish sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least six of the ten evidentiary criteria and is qualified 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a film director and screenwriter whose credits include theatrical feature films and 
documentary projects released in his native country of Turkey. The record reflects that he has also 
worked as a lecturer and writer on the topics of screenwriting and filmmaking. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met the following criteria: 
awards, judging, and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8,c..E..R., 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), and (vii), resrctivf1y. The record reflects that the Petitioner's film,L___J I I won two Grand Jury Awards at the WorldFestl I Film Festival, and that it 
was screened at several additional festivals. Accordingly, we agree that the submitted evidence 
establishes that the Petitioner meets the awards and display criteria. In addition, the Petitioner 
provided evidence that he judged the work of others in his field as a member of juries for the I I 
International Film Festival as well as other short film and screenwriting competitions. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As detailed above, the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence and established that he 
meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will 
therefore evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of individuals at the very 
top of his field. In a final merits determination, we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether it is sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability. 
As a preliminary matter, however, we note that counsel appears to object to the Director's final merits 
analysis, stating that the Petitioner was held to "a super standard." Specifically, counsel cites to Muni 
v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440,445 (N.D. Ill., May 23, 1995), arguing that "a petitioner is expected to show 
international recognition as outstanding by producing evidence from at least 3 of the 10 criteria in the 
Regulations. It is not necessary to show that each criterion was met as a result of extraordinary ability." 
Counsel further argues "[i]t is the reverse that is true -by satisfying at least three criteria through 
meeting the plain language of the regulations, an alien is deemed to have international recognition." 
Notwithstanding counsel's assertions, Muni specifically states that "the satisfaction of the three­
category production requirement does not mandate a finding that the petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognition in his field." Id. at 445-46. 
As discussed above, USCIS performs a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and 
then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits 
determination. See Kazarian 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to 
the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 (Dec. 22, 2010). Here, 
the Director's decision reflects that he evaluated the evidence to determine if it met the plain language 
of the evidentiary criteria as the first part of a two-step analysis. After determining that the Petitioner 
had met three criteria, the Director considered the quantity and quality of evidence in order to 
determine whether the evidence was consistent with a finding that the Petitioner demonstrated that he 
has sustained national or international acclaim. We do note, however, that in conducting the final 
merits determination, the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence, but rather limited his 
final merits discussion to evidence submitted to meet the awards, judging, and display criteria. We 
will consider the totality of the evidence in our discussion below. 
The Petitioner is a film director and screenwriter who has also worked as an assistant director, camera 
operator, film magazine editor, and lecturer. The record as a whole reflects that he has become a 
respected figure in the Turkish film and television industry, but does not demonstrate that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Based on the submitted evidence, the Petitioner is best known for his first feature film,I J 6 I I, which he completed in 2007. The Petitioner received two received Special 
Jury~Awards, in the "First Feature" and "Theatrical Feature" categories, at the 2009 Worldfest 
I !International Film Festival for this film. Fu~e record reflects that the Petitioner's 
participation in W orldfestl ~md his receipt of the l____J\ wards were covered by Turkish media 
3 
outlets, including the Turkish CNN website (CNN Turk). On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that 
W orldfest "is the oldest independent film and video festival in the world and the third most competitive 
international film festival in North America."1 Worldfest's publicity materials reflect that many 
internationally recognized film directors received their first awards at the festival very early in their 
careers.2 This fact does not establish, however, that winning al IAward results in sustained 
national or international acclaim for the award recipient. The other I !Award-winning film 
directors referenced by the Petitioner have many film credits and became internationally recognized 
in the field based on other projects that came later in their careers. The Petitioner received his awards 
for .__ _______ _.in 2009, but has not directed another feature film or demonstrated that he 
received any additional nominations or awards for his film and television projects in subsequent years, 
which would tend to support a finding that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim 
in the field. 
The record also reflects that I I was screened at the I IFilm Festival, t~ 
I [urkish Film Festival, thel I Film FestivalJ ITurkish Film Days, and thec=J I ~ Middle East Film Festival. As it is expected that film directors would exhibit 
their artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of the 
Petitioner's work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this classification. While this evidence 
demonstrates that the film received additional recognition in the independent film field, the record 
contains little information regarding these festivals. Further, the Petitioner has not established that the 
selection of his film for these festivals resulted in significant media attention or otherwise resulted in 
national or international recognition. For example, the record reflects that the Tallahassee Democrat 
published a 2008 article titled 'c=l Rolls Cinema-Powered tri throu h Middle East," which 
mentioned the Beneficiary's visit to~ to discuss and present at its Middle 
East Film Festival. In addition, the Petitioner provided a 2008 Austin Chronicle article 
titled 1 IFilm Festival Announces Full Lineup," which listsl I among the 
films being screen at the festival that year. The Petitioner did not provide evidence that he received 
any major media coverage for his festival appearances in the United States or elsewhere or provide 
other evidence that his U.S. film festival screenings reflect the level of national or international acclaim 
required for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received considerable print media coverage in Turkey 
surrounding the release of~------~ The Director determined that the evidence submitted 
under the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), did not meet all elements of the 
evidentiary criterion either due to incomplete translations, incomplete information regarding the 
author, title, and date of the material, and/or a lack of evidence that the articles appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. On appeal, counsel reiterates that the Petitioner 
provided published materials "from major newspapers and magazines" but we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner did not provide independent evidence showing that the submitted newspaper and 
1 W orldfest' s own publicity materials indicate that, when founded in 1961, it "became the third competitive international 
film festival in North America." This evidence does not support various statements in the record which refer to Worldfest 
as "the third most competitive" film festival in North America. 
2 Specifically, Worldfest's website provides a lengthy list of directors "discovered" at the festival that includes Steven 
Spielberg, George Lucas, David Lynch. Oliver Stone, the Coen Brothers, Ang Lee, among others and states that there are 
"hundreds more." 
4 
magazine articles appeared in major Turkish publications with high circulation statistics. 3 Therefore, 
while the Petitioner provided evidence that articles about him and~-------~ appeared in 
Turkish publications such as Aksiyon, Haftalik, Sinematurk, Sultanahmet Gazetesi, Turkish Daily 
News, and what appears to be the Turkish version of Star magazine, we cannot determine whether this 
evidence supports the Petitioner's claim that he received major, national media attention for his work. 
The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot showing that he was interviewed on Fox Channel Turkey 
and NTV in connection with I [ but he did not provide the dates of broadcast, 
transcripts of his interviews, or evidence that these were national broadcasts. The record also contains 
evidence that, in addition to the film's screenings in various festivals, it received a broader theatrical 
release in Turkey. However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective evidence to establish 
that the film was a commercial success based on its box office receipts or video sales. Therefore, 
while the evidence shows that .__ _______ ____.enjoyed critical acclaim at Worldfest, was 
screened at several other festivals, and received media attention, it does not demonstrate that this 
acclaim was accompanied by commercial success despite its broader release. More importantly, as 
will be discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that his subsequent projects have garnered 
the same level of acclaim or elevated him to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that he received media coverage related td.__ ______ ~ 
a six-part documentary series that aired on the Turkish television channel TRT in 2014. Although 
counsel describes TRT as "the second most watched channel in Turkey," this claim that is not 
adequately supported by independent evidence. 4 The Petitioner provided several print articles 
regarding the premiere ofl I and evidence that part of the series was screened at a 
premiere event atl I University. Additionally, he provided: screenshots from the 
NTV television program Hafta Sonu which appears to depict an interview with the Petitioner and 
coverage of ......,_ _______ __. premiere; screenshots from TR T Turk which were captioned 
a brief article about the 
premiere that appeared on the TR T A vaz website; and screenshots that appear to show the Petitioner 
being interviewed in-studio about I I for the channel TRT Haber. As with other 
evidence submitted under the published materials criterion, the Petitioner did not provide transcripts 
of television interviews and appearances or evidence that the submitted print articles were published 
in major media. While,...__ _______ ~appears to have been a nationally televised series whose 
premiere was covered by Turkish media outlets, the record does not contain evidence that it was 
nominated for or received any awards or evidence that it drew a large number of viewers or critical 
acclaim. 
The record contains comparatively l~rce regrding the Petitioner's o~her film projects which 
include the documentaries I IL__J I I and! I I I In addition, some of the submitted testimonial letters, discussed further below, 
reference the Petitioner's earlier work for the television series.__ _________ __. andl I 
.__ __ _,I on which he worked as an assistant director. However, the record lacks sufficient independent 
evidence of the recognition he received for these projects. With respect to the documentaries, it is 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that "evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the publication is). 
4 Based on the information from TR T's website, there appear to be 14 different TRT channels, some of which are regional, 
rather than national or international. It is unclear which TRT channel(s) aired the Petitioner's documentary series. 
5 
unclear when, where or in what capacity these projects were released and how they were received by 
audiences and critics, as many of them were documented in the record solely through submission of 
captioned screenshots. The record reflects that an article about the Petitioner and his filml I 
appeared in the Turkish publication Aksiyon in 2006, but he did not provide evidence that this 
publication is considered major media in Turkey or otherwise provide sufficient evidence to establish 
that this film received national or international attention. 
Overall, during his 20-year career in his field, the Petitioner has established that he directed one award­
winning film that garnered him national attention in Turkey when it was first released and when 
screened at international festivals in 2008 and 2009. His next noted project! I 
was released in 2014, and also garnered some media coverage in Turkey. While both projects are 
noteworthy accomplishments for the Petitioner as a film director, the evidence does not establish that 
they are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work" or that receiving the documented level of 
recognition for two projects during a 20 year career demonstrates a level of success consistent with 
being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C .F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that he does not work solely as a film maker, but is also a writer and lecturer 
on the subjects of film making and screenwriting. Many of the submitted articles written by him 
about screenwriting and filmmaking appear to have been published on the hiss own website, but the 
record does not contain evidence showing that his website is widely viewed or read. The Petitioner 
also provided evidence that he contributed to a book titled J I about Turkish 
director I l but he submitted only a brief excerpt from his chapter. An article about the book 
indicates that it consists of interviews withl 6nd his family and friends. However, it is unclear 
whether being selected for an interview about his friend and former colleague is indicative of his 
national acclaim for his work in the field. 
The record further reflects that the Petitioner authored articles or reviews in the Turkish publications 
Anlysis, Bilem ve Gelecek, Cafe-Sanat, Hayed Perdesi, and Film Arasi, a film magazine that he co­
foundedAs acknowledged by counsel, any published articles must be evaluated so that we can 
determine whether they are indicative of the Petitioner being one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of his field and enjoying sustained national acclaim. Here, the Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient information regarding these publications, such as their circulation statistics and 
targeted audiences, to support such a finding. On appeal, counsel maintains that the submitted articles 
are "extraordinary" but does not offer further explanation. While the evidence supports the 
Petitioner's expertise in the filmmaking and screenwriting field, we cannot determine that his 
publications support a finding that he enjoys sustained national or international acclaim that places 
him at the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence related to his work as a lecturer and asserts that it supports a 
finding that he has made original scholarly or artistic contributions in his field, consistent with the 
evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner listed and provided evidence of 18 
lectures, seminars and classes in which he served as an instructor between 2009 and 2016 on topics 
such as the Turkish filmmaking business, screenwriting, and film analysis. However, similar to the 
submitted evidence of his published articles, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information 
regarding his activities as a lecturer to establish that this evidence is indicative of his stature at the top 
6 
of his field or his sustained national acclaim. While the Petitioner provided copies of newspaper 
articles that announced workshops and seminars in which he participated as a lecturer, the record does 
not contain information regarding the publications in which they appeared or otherwise support a 
finding that he received national attention based on his experience as an instructor in the field. Further, 
the fact that he has published articles and delivered seminars and lectures does not lead to a conclusion 
that he made original contributions of major significance in the field based on these activities. 
The Petitioner has also submitted testimonial letters that summarize and discuss the Petitioner's 
contributions in the field as an author, lecturer, and film maker. With regard to his published 
materials, he provided a letter from I I of D Films, who stated that he relied on the 
Petitioner's "online posts about World Cinema" to use in his own teaching activities. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided a letter from Turkish actorl I who states that he has attended some 
of the Petitioner's seminars and lectures inl l He describes the Petitioner's topics as "unique, 
insightful and inspiring" and notes that the Petitioner "has not only changed my interpretation of the 
screenplay characters but also my acting performance and the way I give life to characters that I am 
portraying." While these letters suggest that the Petitioner's essays and lectures have directly impacted I I and I I in their approaches to teaching and acting, their statements are not 
indicative of original contributions in the field with a wider impact consistent with "major 
significance," nor do their statements support a finding that the Petitioner has received national or 
international acclaim as a result of his writing and lecturing activities. 
The Petitioner also provided letters that discuss his contributions as a filmmaker.I I a 
filmmaker from New Zealand, discussd lnoting that the Petitioner used a "novel 
initiative" to write the film's screenplay. Specifically, she states that [i]t was novel in the sense that 
it was one of first examples of online story development collaborating with its public audience on the 
internet" and was "way before the time of kickstarter or any other collaborative fundraising or 
collaborative creative platforms."! I also describd~------~b as "one of the first 
Turkish films in the mystery/thriller genre" and states her belief that it is "still a good subject of film 
studies itself" Finally she commented on ~-------~noting that the series "sought the 
forgotten and unheard of voices of African people" and noted that the Petitioner's "effort to depict all 
colors of the planet and his contribution build [sic] a better society was outstanding." WhileD I I discusses original or novel aspects of the Petitioner's work, she has not established that either 
of his films was particularly influential in the Turkish or international film industry such that it had 
they had an impact of major significance5 in the overall field that contributed to his national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml l an executive editor with~I ---~ 
I I who discusses the Petitioner's early career, noting that he got his ~tart workipg 
on non-fiction shows as a member of1 ~ team, and later brought the project~l--.,.... ..... ~!to 
the TV channel's board of directors, noting that the show became "one of the most popular and most 
influential TV shows in 2000s," and influenced the major television networks for years as they tried 
to replicate the show. A letter froml lofl , J also mentions that 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met the original contributions criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
7 
the Petitioner was the screenwriter and director of I I noting the popularity of the show and 
its "significant impact on its audience on a national scale in Turkey." However, as noted, the record 
contains little independent evidence of the Petitioner's work on I I or the attention he received 
for this work, to corroborate its claimed impact and influence on Turkish television. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I a writer and film critic, who describes the 
Petitioner's work as "extraordinary and exceptional" and states that he is "an outstanding artist" who 
has "many followers in Turkey in artistic sense." I !further notes that the Petitioner is "very 
well-known, extraordinary and one of the most impactful film directors." However, he does not offer 
specific examples of the Petitioner's impact on the field or discuss in any detail how he has influenced 
other artists. Finally, o, anneal t~e Petitioner eovides a new letter from I ~t University of1~_ ----~----____..who summarizes the evidence in the Petitioner's file 
and concludes that "he has earned a very distinguished level of recognition and admiration among his 
peers and other professionals." 
In evaluating the Petitioner's evidence, we take into account the probative analysis that experts may 
provide in opinion letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions of major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not. 6 While the referenced letters praise the Petitioner's 
talents, accomplishments, and broad experience, they are not sufficiently detailed to support a 
conclusion that he has made impactful or influential contributions to his field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's experiences judging the work of others, an evaluation of this practice is 
acceptable under Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-11, to determine if such evidence is indicative of the 
extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. The record reflects that the 
Beneficiary was responsible for judging entries at various film festivals and screenwriting 
competitions in Turkey between 2013 and 2016, including the 4th and 5th llrnternationµl.Eilm, 
Festival, thel !Documentary and Animation Shorts Competition, ~ersity's 6thl__J I !Short Film Competition, and the I I Screen I lay Competition, among others. The 
Petitioner provided screenshots of articles demonstrating the I andl I Screenplay 
award winners received media coverage on the website Ihlas Haber Ajansi (Iha.com.tr). The Petitioner 
also submitted screenshots showing that he presented the Best Short Documentary award to the winner 
at the I !competition, which was televised onl I TV." However, the documented 
amount of coverage does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national recognition in the field 
based on his work as a judge in these competitions. The record contains little background information 
regarding the nature or scope of the competitions he judged, or the level of recognition associated with 
being selected as a judge. While we note that at least one of these competitions had a televised awards 
ceremony, the record does not contain evidence regarding the station that broadcast the awards and its 
intended audience. As a result, we cannot determine that the Petitioner's judging activities reflect 
that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
8 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he is a member and "advisory 
committee member" of SINEBIR (Turkey's "Film Authors' Collecting Society"), a member of the 
advisory board of the Center for Turkish Cinema Studies (TSA), and a member of the International 
Competitiveness Research Group (URAK), an organization that does not appear to be related to the 
film industry. While his membership in Turkish film industry associations is noted, the record does 
not contain sufficient supporting evidence regarding these groups or their membership requirements 
and selection procedures to establish that such memberships, even at the advisory board or committee 
level, are indicative of the Petitioner's national acclaim as a film maker. 
Considered in its totality, the evidence in the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary is a talented 
film director, screenwriter, author and lecturer who is well-respected within Turkey based on his broad 
experience in the film and television industries. While his experience is wide-ranging and includes 
several notable accomplishments, the Petitioner has not shown that his artistic achievements at this 
point of his career, in any one area or as a whole, are indicative of one who has risen to the very top 
of his field of endeavor with sustained national or international acclaim, as required. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699068 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[n] martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the initial evidentiary requirements. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial artist who at the time of filing was serving as the~I --~I of the D 
Regional Federation of Thai Boxing in Ukraine. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets 
the following evidentiary criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i),(iii), published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)(viii). After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received numerous awards in the field of kickboxing. For 
example, it establishes that in thee=] cate or he received first place at the 2013 World Association 
of Kickboxing Organizations (W AKO Cu and second place at the 2014 World 
Kickboxin Federation held in~_~and the 2016 Amateur/Pro-am~!--~ 
.__ ________ .....,...... respectively. It farther shows that the I I Regional Administration of 
Sport awarded him first place in th~ I category at the Tournament of Thaiboxing I I I I and that he won first place in the I I category at the Ukrainian Cup of 
Kickboxing. 
2 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provides documents and highlights criteria within them for the awards he 
has received.1 For example, he provides the "WAKO General Rules Chapter 1," in which he identifies 
the section "Art. 4.1 Championship Trophies." This section lists the awards to be famished at 
"World/Continental Championships" and provides that they will be granted as follows: "1st place= 3 
pts. 2nd placed= 2 pts. [sic] 3rd place= 1 pt." In the World Kickboxing Federation Official Amateur 
Rulebook, the Petitioner flags section "2.3.7. Team Fights" as well as the "Kickboxing Scoring 
Criteria" and 'Thai Boxing Scoring Criteria" which establish how points are awarded and how team 
wins are determined. While these materials, and the others in the record, provide the general criteria 
for the awards he has received, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of 
the awards won. 2 The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of martial arts as required. The Petitioner, 
therefore, has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as the record contains published material 
about him in print and online media sources including the title, date and author, as well as, "whenever 
available ... information regarding the Alexa Rank, the estimated daily and monthly revenues, and the 
estimated website value of online sources of publications." 
The Petitioner provides several articles that are about him and relate to his work. For example, he 
submits one titled .__~-----------~---~--' published in the newspaper Simya 
i Dim which includes the date and author of the materials, as required. He also includes an article 
titled '.__ _____________ _. published in Martial Arts. Keys to Excellence, in which 
he answers a series of questions about the sport ofl I In addition, the record includes articles 
published online at.__ _____ __. and I I as well as in the newspaper Ljubart 
Chronicles that are also about the Petitioner and relate to his work as a martial artist. 
The Petitioner also provides print or online circulation statistics for each of the abovementioned 
publications or websites. However, he does not submit comparative evidence establishing that these 
statistics are high relative to other circulation statistics, or otherwise show that the newspapers or 
websites are professional or major trade publications. 3 We farther note that, with the exception of the 
previously mentioned Simya i Dim article, the materials do not include the name of the author as 
required by the criterion. 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting relevant considerations in determining if the 
award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international significance in the field.) 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 7. 
3 
In addition to the abovementioned articles, the record also includes an article '.__ ________ _. 
'-------,-----~ which focuses on the recent success of "two representatives of the Fight Club 
Pitbull" and their win at a recent competition, but only briefly mentions the Petitioner. A second 
article 1 tis not about the Petitioner, but rather summarized all of the 
fights taking place during the amateur I I competition, of which one involved the Petitioner. 
Articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor.) Further, we note that the first article does not include an 
author, as required. Moreover, while the Petitioner includes online circulation statistics for the 
websites on which these articles appeared, he does not establish that these sites are major media or 
professional or major trade publications. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. Here the Petitioner 
asserts eligibility through his participation as "a professional referee in I . ~ at regi~ 
national, and international championships. He provides a copy of his credentials for the 2016L_J 
Edition World I !Championship and photographs of himself at this event. The Petitioner also 
includes a letter from I l executive vice president of legal and international affairs at the 
,....._ _______ .....-(WMF) and a certificate from the WMF identifying him as an "International 
Referee & Judge C Class" and confirming his completion of the "Referees and Judges Course" during 
this championship. Finally, he provides his work schedules as a referee for the 2015 "Championship 
in Kickboxing, WKP A."4 
Here the evidence supports the Petitioner's assertion that he has served as a professional referee at 
numerous martial arts events. The WMF certificate establishes his qualifications as such and confirms 
that he completed the "referees and judges course" during the 2016 c=]Edition World I I 
Championship. His credentials for this event clearly identify him as a coach and referee for this event, 
and the photographs are sufficient to demonstrate that he participated in that role. I Is letter, 
provided by the Petitioner as evidence of his qualification as a referee, also confirms that she saw him 
act in this role, 5 and his work schedules for the 2015 Kickboxing Championship confirm that he 
worked as a referee for numerous fights during that event. 
However, the Petitioner does not provide a description of his duties as a referee to demonstrate whether 
they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules 
4 The Petitioner does not provide the full name of this organization. 
5 While I I indicates that she was "pleased to see [the Petitioner] as an International Judge and Referee at this 
event," this is discrepant with the Petitioner's own representation of his role at this event in the initial petition. Moreover, 
as noted in the brief accompanying the initial petition, the Petitioner provides this letter to demonstrate his certification as 
a referee. 
4 
of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Further, the record lacks other evidence, such as 
official competition rules for either event, showing that serving as a referee in this instance equates to 
participating as a 'judge" of the work of others. 6 Without farther documentation, such as evidence 
that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner at these events, the 
evidence regarding serving as a referee at martial arts events is insufficient to meet this criterion. 7 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the three criteria relating to prizes or 
awards, published material, and judging. Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy an additional 
criterion related to leading or critical role on appeal, we need not reach this issue. We reserve it as he 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
6 While the Petitioner 1,rovides a document titled ~-------' it does not describe the duties ofreferees and 
judges participating inl , I sanctioned events. 
7 We note that the record includes a copy of the "Official Amateur Rulebook" rrom the World Kickboxing Federation. 
which indicates that judges are responsible for scoring matches and referees mainly serve to enforce rules ( sections 2.1.14 
and 2.1.15.) The record does not include similar evidence regarding the WMF or the WKPA, the associations for which 
the evidence establishes that the Petitioner served as a referee. 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5756471 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a violinist who performs as a soloist and with several ensembles in the~I ---~ 
metropolitan area. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others in the same field and display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner submitted copies of programs for her performances 
at concerts and recitals and therefore we agree with the Director that she meets the display criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We also find sufficient evidence to establish that she has participated as 
a judge of the work of other musicians at thel I International Music Competition and therefore 
meets the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed that she meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), but she has not pursued this claim on appeal. Accordingly, we will not further address the criterion here. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner states that she received the following awards and documented her receipt by submitting 
copies of her award certificates:4 
• First Prize E~n_s_e_m_b_l~e,~ ____ ___,Competition ~ 12017) 
• Second Prize - International Music I ~ I 2016) • First Prize, International Competition (no <lat~) 
• Second Prize, International Competition ~I ~--~2-0_1_4_) _~ 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. For the reasons 
discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
Counsel stated that the I I Competition is an international music competition open to 
instrumental, vocal, and ensemble performers and "split into five age groups ranging from ages 5 to 
33." Further, counsel indicated that the grand and first prize winners perform at the "Winner's 
Concert" at I I while second and third place winners perform at I I A letter 
from pianist I I states that they recruited the Petitioner to play in a quintet which won the 
first prize ensemble award at this competition and performed in th~ I as a 
reward for their placement. 
However, the record does not contain any additional information or supporting evidence regarding the 
.__ _____ ___,~ompetition to support the Petitioner's claim that her first prize award is considered 
a nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field of classical music. Without evidence 
of the entrance requirements and restrictions, information on the number of competitors in the 
Petitioner's age category, or evidence of the level ofrecognition associated with this award, we cannot 
find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
The I I International Competition I I is described in the record as a 
"distinguished international music competition," established in 2013, which attracts participants from 
throughout the United States and across the world. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot of the 
repertoire and competition rules from the I I website, as well as an advertisement for the 
competition that appeared in the Korean-language publication "Music Education Newspaper," which 
provided information and audition instructions for the c=Jannual competition held in 2015. The 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
4 Subsequent to the fj)ing r the petition, the Petitioner provided a copy of a Certificate of Recognitiof framl I 
State Senator! recognizing her as "Best Teacher" at the I !International Music I inD 
2018. Because this evidence post-dates the filing of the petition, this evidence cannot be used to satisfy the awards criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (eligibility for the requested benefit must be established "at the 
time of filing" and "must continue through adjudication"). 
3 
advertisement indicates that the age limit for the competition is "pre-K up to age 32," and notes that 
grand and first prize winners are given the opportunity to perform at a winners' recital atl I D The Petitioner also submitted articles indicating that two previous I I winners, a Spanish 
trombonist and a Taiwanese soprano, had their respective results re orted in the media in their home 
countries. 5 Finally, she provided a screenshot from the website calendar indicating that 
the latestl I winners' concert had taken place at:_-=._-_-_-_-~---~in~2018. 
As noted, the Petitioner's first prize certificate froml I is not dated and is not supported by 
evidence indicating when she won this award and performed in the winners' concert. Further, the 
record does not contain official results or other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the 
competition or in the Petitioner's category in the year in which she won, or the total number of first 
prize awards given. Finally, the submitted statements indicate that entry to the competition was age­
restricted and limited to musicians aged 32 or younger, and not open to all musicians who may have 
been competitive for top prizes. 
In addition, although the supporting evidence indicates that the compet1t10n seeks and attracts 
participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of competitors, without 
more, does not establish the requisite recognition. While the evidence reflects that two otherl I 
winners received some media attention for their awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence verifying 
that prizes and awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herselfreceived any recognition from outside 
the issuing organization. 
Regarding the I I International Competition LJ, where the Petitioner received a second 
prize award in 2014, the Petitioner submitted: an article titled.__ _____________ __. I I which appeared in the 2015 edition of a Korean-language magazine called 
Auditorium; an review titled '-------.----------.---~ which appeared in La Musica, a 
Korean-language marzine rublished by.__ _____ ~ the Petitioner's 0-1 employer and p.l..s..u.._a_, 
sponsor or partner of a screenshot of the "Rules and Repertoire" requirements from the L__J 
website; and a screenshot from thel I website indicating that anD winners' concert 
was on the recital hall's calendar forl 12017. 
While the articles in Auditorium and La Musica provide additional background information regrding I I l they do not support the Petitioner's claim that her second prize award at the inaugural 
competition in 2014 qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. The article 
in Auditorium notes that is open to musicians from elementary school to age 33, is judged by 
music faculty at.__ __ ~' s best music schools, and indicates that Korean students did well in the 
competition's inaugural year. The article from La Musica indicates that the second annual I I 
competition held in 2015 drew over 200 video auditions from musicians in the United States, Korea 
and Europe. The article also highlights several Korean violinists who received first or grand prizes 
during the first twoD competitions, but does not mention the Petitioner or her second place finish 
in the 20141 ~ompetition. Further, while these articles confirm thatOdrew participants from 
5 The articles appeared on the websites caudetedigital.com and taiwantoday.tw. According to the submitted web traffic 
statistics from the website SimilarWeb, the former is ranked 14,576 in Spain and the latter ranked 21,835 in Taiwan. 
4 
outside the United States, the evidence does noes not establish that the competition awards nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes. 
As with the other awards the Petitioner received, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize winners in each age and instrument 
category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which she received an award. We cannot 
determine that the Petitioner's second prize award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence. 
Finally, with respect to her second prize finish at thel I International Music I I 
.__ __ ___,I, the submitted evidence is limited to a copy of the award certificate, and a brief description 
of the competition in counsel's cover letter in support of the petition. While the Petitioner submitted 
additional evidence related to her other awards in response to a request for evidence, she provided no 
further evidence related to this award and therefore did not meet her burden to establish that the award 
meets each element of this evidentiary criterion. 6 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she authored four articles which appeared in La Musirn 
magazine, as well as an article that appeared in the Korean publication Mom & I, which she describes 
as a "lifestyle magazine." 
We note that, in fields outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in the field. 7 Each of the articles the Petitioner wrote for La Musica, is about a particular piece 
of classical music. For example, in the article 1.__ __________________ J' the 
Petitioner writes about Brahms' Piano Quartet No. 3 in C minor, discussing Brahms' inspiration for 
this work, the history of its composition, details regarding its publication, the mood of the piece, and 
some recommended recordings. The Petitioner did not establish that the intended audience of this and 
other articles published in La Musica is learned persons in the field of music. Further, the record does 
not contain evidence that La Musica, which appears to be published independently by~ 
.__ ____ __.I an artist management company, is a professional publication, a major trade publication, 
or other major medium. For similar reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her article for 
the lifestyle magazine Mom & I satisfies both elements of this evidentiary criterion. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's determination that this criterion was not met. 
6 In addition, we note that the Petitioner's! laward certificate is datedl 12015, but the Petitioner also 
submitted certificates fromc=J indicating that she served as a judge at this event apn.uajly. Her judging certificates 
are datedLJ2015,02~201 7, ~18. If the competition is held inLJ it is unclear why her award 
certificate as a participant would be dated inL___J2015. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9 ( defining "learned" as "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship"). 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion because "she has performed the most leading roles 
a violinist can attain including as concertmaster, assistant concertmaster, principal second violin and 
as soloist for multiple distinguished organizations." 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 9 A distinguished organization is one that is "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."10 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights her roles with the following organizations: 
• 
• 
• Philharmonic Orchestra (Principal Violin II) Ir------'--, 
.,__ ___ _.__C_la_,ssical Symphony Orchestra (Assistant Concertmaster and soloist) 
'-------' Quintet Ensemble (member) 
The Director determined that there was insufficient evidence that the Petitioner has held a leading or 
critical role with these or other organizations, but did not address whether the evidence demonstrated 
that she has worked with distinguished organizations or establishments. 
With respect to the Petitioner's role with thel ~hilharmonic, we note that her initial submission 
contained no mention or evidence related to this orchestra or her claimed leadership position within 
it. The Petitioner later provided a letter froml I the orchestra's president, who states that 
the Petitioner joined the I I Philharmonic in January 2016, noting fhat "she wf8 able to come in 
to perform and also coach her colleagues in both the violin sections."~---~ indicates that the 
Petitioner commenced her position as Principal Violin II in November 2017, and is responsible for 
leading her section. Finally, I I writes that "most recently" the Petitioner was nominated to 
the Board of Directors as a Trustee. The I I Philharmonic' s music director and conductor,! I I I states that the Petitioner "has played a critical and leading role" for the orchestra 
and "has been promoted to the principal position of the violin section." He also states that the 
Petitioner has been a member of the orchestra's board since May 2017, and notes that her "resources 
and ideas have proven essential to the growth of the organization." 
While the Petitioner's Principal Violin II position may be considered leading or critical to the 
orchestra, the record does not establish that thel !Philharmonic has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner provided a New York Times article from 1987 titled 'I I 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
io Id. 
6 
.__ ____ ~t' published in th re ion section of the paper. The article discusses the 
history of the ensemble (which is based in._______,,. ___ ______. New Jersey), as it prepared to open its 50th 
anniversary season. The article also describes its membership noting that "[ d]octors, lawyers, 
housewives and saleswomen sit side by side in the orchestra with retired members of groups like the 
.__ ___ ~I Philharmonic." The article mentions previous guest artists and discusses the upcoming 
season. The Petitioner did not submit any other media coverage of the orchestra or other evidence in 
support of its claim that it currently enjoys a distinguished reputation. Based on the limited evidence, 
the organization seems to be noted for its longevity, which is not in and of itself a determining factor 
when considering whether a given organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation for 
purposes of this criterion. 
Regarding the I I Clasral Symphony Orchestra I I, the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter from I , its conductor and musical director.I I states th~was 
founded in 2011 and states that it "has quickly been established as a cultural icon" inc===] and 
"around the world." He notes several instances in whilh the PeTioner was featured as a violin soloist, 
and mentions the Petitioner's role as director of the.__ __ _. s sister organization, the I I 
Classical Youth Orchestral ~-I I does not, however, indicate that the Petitioner is the 
assistant concertmaster for the I I although we note her role is mentioned in an I I 
program. The Petitioner also submitted several articles that describe leadership positions within an 
orchestra's violin section. While this evidence indicates that an assistant concertmaster position is 
generally considered leading or critical, the record does not establish that I I or its sister youth 
orchestra have a reputation that is recognized as distinguished. The Petitioner provided little 
independent evidence regarding these organizations and their standing among professional and youth 
orchestras. Counsel's assertion that thq ~ "has been highly praised by the press and public in 
the United States, Korea and German" is not substantiated. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
With respect to the Petitioner's membership in th~ I Quintet, the record does not establish 
that this small ensemble is an "organization or establishment" as required by the regulatory language. 
I I states that the Petitioner was a "key and essential member of the quintet" and mentions that 
the ensemble won first prize at the 20171 !Competition, but the record does not 
document any other performances by the quintet. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
demonstrating that this quintet enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from I I music director of the ~I----~ 
Orchestra, who states that he recruited the Petitioner to join the orchestra as assistant concertmaster 
and promoted her to concertmaster in 2015, noting that this is a critical role which is essential to the 
orchestra's mission. The record also contains a program from a 2015 concert at f church ipl I 
New Jersey, which lists the Petitioner as concert master. However, other than~--~ts letter, the 
Petitioner did not submit any evidence related to this ensemble and therefore she did not establish that 
it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the record contains evidence that she "performed leading roles that 
were incredibly valuable" to.__ _____ ~ I l~oque Charube] Hall, The I I 
International Summer Music Academy Orchestra, EnsembleLJ th~'----~ School of Music and 
7 
Art, and La Musirn magazine. The record includes a program indicating that the Petitioner performed 
a recital in thee=] Baroque Chamber Hall's debut concert series in 2012, but this evidence does not 
establish her leading or critical role with an "organization or establishment." Similarly, the Petitioner 
provided a program from a ~erformance of The II International Summer Music Academy 
Orchestra held in]~----~in 2006, in which sh~d as a member of the first violin section. 
The record does not reflect that this was a leading or critical role, nor does it contain any additional 
evidence regarding her performance with this ensemble. 
With reslect to Ensembl~ the Petitioner provided a letter from the ensemble's founder and artistic 
director,_ I who notes the Petitioner's "performance as an orchestral member" of the 
ensemble, but did not further discuss her role. As a result, the letter was insufficient to meet the 
Petitioner's burden to establish that her role for this ensemble was leading or critical. The record also 
contains a program from one EnsembleD performance in which the Petitioner is listed as a member 
of the violin section. However, the record lacks evidence ofEnsembleDs distinguished reputation 
to support counsel's assertion that the group "is making a tremendous impact in I I's classical 
music scene" and "redefining the role of the 21st century chamber orchestra." 
Finally, with respect to her roles with I l La Musica, and the I I School of 
Music and Art, the record does not contain letters from these organizations describing her roles and 
responsibilities and therefore does not support a finding that she meets this criterion based on those 
roles. The record reflects that the Petitioner has performed in concerts and recitals sponsored bye=] 
I f, in faculty concerts of I I and as I lof La Musica, but this evidence alone is 
insufficient to meet her burden to demonstrate how her role was leading or critical to these 
organizations. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that any of these 
organizations enjoy a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's 
determination that this criterion was not met. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785 (E.D. La.), ajj'd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
8 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6222950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a television presenter and actress, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that she has worked an actress, host, presenter, model, spokesperson, and 
journalist. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, artistic display of her work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). For example, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner modeled for fashion shows and performed as an actress in television soap 
operas. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets additional evidentiary criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the Union of Artists and 
Technicians for Entertainment Shows ~--------~ and Union of Professional Journalists 
ofi I. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in 
the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
As it relates tol I the Petitioner provided the organization's bylaws from~---------
reflecting that applicants for membership must present an academic diploma in theater, choreography, 
or dramatic art; a "diploma or certificate corresponding to the professional qualifications of 2nd degree 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual ( AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
of actor"; or a "certificate of professional qualification provided by the union representative of 
professional categories." In addition, I ts website indicates that those who do not have 
training in schools recognized by the Ministry of Education (Brazil) can "request froml lthe 
issuance of the Training Certificate and, with it, their Professional Registration (DRT) from the 
Regional Superintendent of Labor and Employment" through these steps: 
■ Reading the Normative Ruling and the Criteria for Training Certification Dubbing Direction 
■ Collect printed material proving experience in the intended function (in chronological order) 
■ Gather printed proofs of courses, workshops, lectures, etc. in the area (with respective menus 
and workload) 
■ Complete here the Application and Professional Profile Questionnaire 
■ Deliver the folder of printed materials at the headquarters ofl I or interior dL.. __ ____. 
■ Pay 50% training exam fee 
■ Wait fo~ ts email contact to confirm and schedule an interview 
■ Attend the interview 
■ In case of approval, attend the Lecture on Legislation lasting 4 hours and pay the administrative 
fee (50%) 
■ Withdraw the Certificate of Qualification and schedule the delivery of the documentation of 
the Professional Registry at SRTE (Regional Superintendence of State Work) 
With respect to fulfilling the aforementioned requirements to become a member ofl I, the 
Petitioner has not shown that presenting an arts diploma or earning a professional certificate is 
tantamount to outstanding achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, she has 
not established that outstanding achievements for membership are judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Regarding! I the Petitioner submitted a letter from the union president, screenshots from the 
organization's website, and its bylaws. The letter froml Is president and the website screenshots 
offer information about the organization's history and background, but this information does not 
indicate thatOrequires outstanding achievements of its members. According toc=Js bylaws, 
"[t]he following are requirements for affiliation as an effective member of the~- proof of 
professional registration in the legally competent body; II. -proof of habitual and paid professional 
exercise in the territorial base of the entity." The bylaws further state tha~umalism students may 
be admitted as members." In addition to not demonstrating that L_J requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, the aforementioned documentation does not show that admission to 
membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not established that she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner presented articles and photographs in FT Show, 
Jornal Zero Hora, Jornal da Semana, Reinaldo Lourenco Summer Collection Catalogue, Nova Navia 
Catalog, and Marie Claire, but the date and author for the majority of these articles were not identified 
3 
as required by the language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, the submitted 
material just briefly mentions the Petitioner or only includes her photograph. 2 Articles that are not 
about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). Furthermore, the record does not include evidence showing that the 
aforementioned publications constitute major media. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work in 
film, theater, television, advertising, fashion, and journalism. In order to meet this criterion, a 
petitioner must establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that she "has made original contributions of major significance in the field of 
Acting, Hosting, Presenting, and Spokesperson [sic]." She argues that evidence documenting her 
participation in various projects and the recommendation letters demonstrate her eligibility for this 
criterion. 3 As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does 
the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific 
"original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of 
"major significance." 
For example,.__ _______ a Brazilian film director and producer, stated that the Petitioner "is 
a reference in her profession in Brazil. I consider her a complete actress with extraordinary ability. 
She has already performed important works in the theater, television, dubbing and cinema industries, 
as well as having the background of presenter andjoumalist."I lforther indicated that the 
Petitioner performed in projects for his I I production company, but did not offer specific 
examples of how her work has risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the overall 
field. 4 
Likewise,! I another Brazilian film director and producer, asserted that the Petitioner's 
"experience in film, theater, television, and commercial work is vast, and her contributions to each 
project's success and originality have been substantial. These projects were made better because of 
her creative involvement." The record, however, does not include sufficient information or evidence 
2 For instance, the article in Jornal da Semana, entitled .__ _________ ___,' is about [ng)jsh designer I land does not mention the Petitioner. The Petitioner appears in a photograph wearing I 
fashions that accompanies the article. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has affected the field in a substantial way or otherwise 
constitutes original contributions of major significance in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her authorship of '.__ __________ ___. also 
represents an artistic-related contribution in her field. Her evidence, however, does not show that this 
article has widely influenced other performing artists or has otherwise received attention at level 
indicative of a contribution of major significance in her field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and her impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner initialll submitted a February 2018 letter from the 
chief executive officer ofl O • __, in I !offering her a part-time position 
as a media advertiser with compensation of "$10,000 U.S. for each campaign." The Petitioner, 
however, did not present comparative evidence demonstrating that this remuneration is high relative 
to other media advertisers working in the United States. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted income statements from her company and accountant reflecting 
her earnings in Brazil from 2012 until 2016. To resoou~, to the Directpr's re uest for evidence she 
provided contracts with I I J J I J I I and I I for h~e_r_s-er-v-ic-e~s in Brazil. She also submitted~---~ 
"Guidelines for Advertising and Advertising Agencies" listing union recommended minimum wages 
for advertising and television work. The Petitioner, however, must demonstrate that she has earned a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in her field and not just a salary that 
is above the union recommended minimum wage. 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Without 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
documentation demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or was 
significantly high in relation to others in the field, she has not established that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
advertisements for I I , ~-----~ I I, I I As evidence for thig·. the Petironer plesented documentation indicating that she appeared in 
.__ _ __.I, I l and nd information about these companies. In addition, she provided media 
articles discussing television programs in which she appeared. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that 
"in the world of television and advertising, there are no tickets sold." The Petitioner farther states that 
she "provided information regarding the success of the companies for which she appeared in 
advertising, and several articles regarding the success of the television programs she appeared in." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." While the Petitioner 
has appeared in advertisements for various companies and television programming, she has not shown 
that the success of those companies and television shows was attributable to her specific work as an 
actress, television host, or spokesperson. Furthermore, she has not demonstrated that her televised 
performances have attracted substantial audiences or that her advertising work generated significant 
sales. In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office 
receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in 
the performing arts. 7 Here, the record does not include evidence identifying the Petitioner as having 
commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is the evidence sufficient to 
demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned companies and television programs 
in which she appeared were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. 8 For the above reasons, the 
Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
8 For example, with respect to the Brazilian soap operas in which she acted, the Petitioner has not shown that their television 
ratings or viewing audience increased significantly once she joined their acting cast. 
6 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4899729 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner competed in martial arts events in Uzbekistan, Thailand, and the United States. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets six criteria. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that although the Petitioner provided evidence of his receipt of various 
martial arts awards, he did not show their national or international recognition for excellence in the 
field. In addition, the Director indicated that while the Petitioner provided printouts from the websites 
of the awarding entities, he did not offer independent, corroborating evidence. Moreover, the Director 
found that additional screenshots from Wikipedia lacked probative value. 3 We note that the Director 
issued a request for evidence (RFE) informing the Petitioner to submit additional documentation to 
establish that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (December 10, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
2 
field, such as the national or international media coverage of the prizes or awards. However, the 
Petitioner did not present any additional evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he "submitted all reasonably available evidence confirming the 
awards he received are lesser nationally and/or internationally recognized awards." However, the 
Petitioner does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner did not indicate which evidence confirms his eligibility for this 
criterion. The Petitioner provided copies of certificates, medals, and photographs without 
demonstrating the national or international significance of the awards. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from various websites relating to the competitions, including Wikipedia, which 
do not discuss the national or international recognition of the bestowed awards. In the case here, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that his martial arts awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
provide any evidence to show that his memberships with the Uzbekistan National Combat Aikidio 
Team (UN CAT), the Uzbekistan National Martial Arts Team (UNMAT), and the Uzbekistan National 
Unifight Team (UNUT) require outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he "submitted extensive evidence 
establishing that he has been a member of [UNCAT], [UNMAT], and [UNUT] and that the above 
referenced teams require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field." 
Again, the Petitioner does not does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner does not indicate which evidence he 
previously submitted and how it establishes his eligibility. Furthermore, the record contains letters 
from other associations claiming that UNCAT, UNMAT, and UNUT require outstanding 
achievements. For instance, the letter from the International Combat Aikido Association relates to 
UNCAT, the letter from the Amateur and Professional Kickboxing Federation of Uzbekistan 
(APKFU) relates to UNMAT, and the letter from the Unifight Federation of Uzbekistan relates to 
UFU. None of the letters explain how they are aware or know of the membership requirements for 
the other associations. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Furthermore, the letters repeat the regulatory language but do not elaborate or articulate how 
memberships require outstanding achievements,
1 as judgr by recognized national or international 
experts. For example,! I of APKFU, claimed that the Petitioner's 
"outstanding achievements in Marital [sic] Arts, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field of Marital [sic] Arts and as confirmed by his major athletic victories that served as 
the basis for granting him membership [with UNMAT]." Whilel I asserted that the 
Petitioner became a member based on his major athletic victories, he did not indicate that UNMAT 
membership requires major athletic victories. In addition, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting 
evidence, such as the bylaws or membership requirements, from any of the associations to support the 
broad assertions in the letters. We note that the Director informed the Petitioner in its RFE to submit 
the section of the associations' constitution or bylaws discussing the membership qualifications, as 
well as information to establish that recognized national or international experts review prospective 
members' qualifications; however, the Petitioner did not provide any additional evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 5 The Petitioner argues that he provided an article from Mir Novostei and an article from 
Vatanparvar reflecting published material about him relating to his work in the field. 
However, neither article represents published material about him. Specifically, the Mir Novostei 
article shows a report on the participation of representatives from the army club, NHSK, at the I I 
World Games for Eastern Martial Arts inl I Thailand. Here, the Petitioner is only mentioned 
one time among the other dozen of competitors named in the article. Furthermore, the Vatanparvar 
article reflects coverage of army fighters competing at the American Open Sambo Championship. In 
fact, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the article. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In 
addition, the Petitioner did not include the required authors of the articles. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that Mir Novostei and Vatanparvar represent major media. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a "PR & Promotion" screenshot from mirnov.ru/pr­
promotion.html that claims the "audience of the newspaper is growing up with the publication." 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from Vatanparvar 's website indicating the dates of first 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
publication, electronic publication, and color publication. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how the evidence shows the major medium standing of either newspaper. USCIS need not rely on the 
self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 
6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Further, the 
Petitioner did not provide the readership or circulation figures of the newspapers. 6 We note that the 
Director informed the Petitioner in its RFE to submit the circulation data for the publications; however, 
the Petitioner did not submit any additional evidence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 7 The Director found that although the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate showing his qualification to be a judge of national category and a letter from 
UFU indicating that he was a judge for various tournaments, he did not provide evidence describing 
the duties of a martial arts judge to demonstrate that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record reflects that he submitted a letter for I ID of UFU, who stated that the 
Petitioner judged 15 championships at the national level from 2013 -2015. In the Director's RFE, he 
informed the Petitioner that his evidence did not describe the duties of a judge to show that he 
participated as a judge of the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he "provided extensive evidence establishing his participations 
[sic] a judge of the work of others in his field of specialization of specification for which classification 
is sought." Once again, the Petitioner does not does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact for the appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner does not indicate the "extensive 
evidence" and how it shows his eligibility for this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner does not demonstrate that the position of a martial arts judge involves 
evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a match 
and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Moreover, the record lacks other evidence, such as official 
competition rules for the tournaments, showing that serving as a judge in this instance equates to 
determining winners rather than administering the rules. Without further documentation, such as 
evidence that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, evidence 
regarding officiating or refereeing at matches is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria regarding to awards, memberships, 
published material, and judging. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, 
relating to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his athletic work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has competed in martial arts events, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5764846 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an orthopedic surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as an orthopedic surgeon and on the faculty of a hospital-affiliated medical 
school. He does not indicate that he intends to work in these capacities in the United States. Instead, 
he states that he seeks employment as a scientific advisor or consultant in orthopedics and traumatology. 
The Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others and performing in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion (pertaining to remuneration), 
discussed below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not 
show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, including the following three: 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met the above three criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not address or contest these findings. The purpose of an appeal is to identify erroneous conclusions of 
law or statements of fact. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Because the Petitioner's appeal does not address 
the above findings, the Petitioner has abandoned the above criteria. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885, at *1, 
2 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned because he did not 
raise them on appeal). 
We will discuss the remaining three criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an alliedfield of spec[ficationfor which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion through his participation in juries to 
evaluate of the work of graduate-level medical students. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the record 
of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence 
establishing that he meets the regulatory requirements for the reasons outlined below. 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which the individual 
was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner stated that he performed in a leading or critical role as "Head of the Unit of Knee and 
Arthroscopic Surgery and Joint Replacement Surgery" at the Hospital Central I I in I I Venezuela, and a professor at the affiliated medical school at the University otLJ The 
Petitioner submitted letters from various co-workers and colleagues. 
The Petitioner appears to have held a leadership position within a particular surgical unit at the hospital. 
But he did not submit objective documentary evidence to establish that his employers have distinguished 
reputations; that his position in charge of a specialized surgical unit was a leading or critical role for the 
hospital as a whole; or that his unit has a distinguished reputation in its own right. Similarly, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the University ofD has a distinguished reputation, and a university faculty position 
is not automatically or presumptively a critical role. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must submit evidence to ( 1) establish the level of his remuneration, 
and (2) allow a comparison between his remuneration and that of others in the field. We find that the 
Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to meet either of these requirements. 
The Petitioner initially submitted a letter from a clinic in Venezuela, indicating that the Petitioner earned 
"an income of more tha[n] 70% of fees, when compared with the rest of the medical specialist[s]." The 
meaning of this statement is not clear from its phrasing, and the letter did not show the Petitioner's actual 
remuneration or provide an objective basis for comparison with the remuneration of others in his field. 
3 
The Director requested objective documentation of the Petitioner's remuneration and evidence to allow 
the required comparison with others in the field. In response, the Petitioner submitted the following 
earnings figures, in Venezuelan bolivares fuertes: 1 
2015 
2016 
2017 
Total Income 
January 2018 
February 2018 
March 2018 
April 2018 
May2018 
June 2018 
Last Six Months Yearly Average Bs.F.182,350,000.00 
391,000,000.00 
549,200,000.00 
1,922,200,000.00 
198,652,000.00 
214,544,160.00 
239,907,408.00 
310,470,000.00 
406,658,500.00 
450,990,200.00 
25,294,475.37 
The Petitioner also showed that, given the conversion rates in effect as of March 8, 2019, 
Bs.F.25,294,475.37 were worth $2,532,613.30 in U.S. currency. The significance of the comparison is 
not clear, because, as explained below, the record does not adequately explain the origin of the 
Bs.F .25 ,294,4 7 5 .3 7 figure. 
The Director stated: "As of the date of this decision [March 14, 2019], the market rate of the Venezuelan 
Bolivar to the US dollar is 0.00003601," resulting in "an annual salary of $92,156.88," which "is 
significantly lower than the 2016 median salary [f]or a physician." To derive this figure, the Director 
relied on the exchange rate for VES, not VEF as the Petitioner did. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's 
specific finding regarding exchange rates. 
Nevertheless, the financial figures are problematic for several other reasons: 
• The accountant who prepared the above table stated that the figures derived from "bank 
statements, tax returns, agreements and other documents," but those documents are not in the 
record, and the accountant did not specify the amounts shown on individual documents. Because 
the Petitioner did not submit payroll or tax documents, we cannot determine whether the 
Petitioner's compensation increased substantially every month, or, instead, the figures represent 
cumulative totals, with the figures for each month or year added to the next. (The amount shown 
as the Petitioner's income for June 2018 is worth about $45 million in U.S. currency, given the 
cited exchange rate of roughly ten bolivares fuertes to the dollar. This amount appears to be 
implausibly high for a month's remuneration.) 
• The table does not specify how much of the reported income was in the form of remuneration for 
services, rather than from other sources such as investments. 
1 We note that Venezuela revalued its cunency in August 2018, with the new bolivar soberano (VES or B.S.) being phased 
in to replace the bolivar fuerte (VEF or B.F.), although trading continues in both currencies. All the figures shown above 
predate the conversion and therefore represent bolivares fuertes. Information about the currency conversion is available 
through links embedded at http://bcv.org.ve/billetes-y-monedas/bolivar-soberano, last visited Nov. 20, 2019. 
4 
• The annual figures for 2015 through 2017 do not add up to the amount shown as 'Total Income" 
directly beneath those figures. 
• The monthly figures shown for January to June of 2018 have no discernible relation to the much 
lower figure identified as the "Last Six Months Yearly Average." The record does not show how 
this average was calculated. 
Given these deficiencies, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish his actual 
remuneration for services. 
In an effort to provide a basis to compare his income with that of others in the field in Venezuela, the 
Petitioner submitted a printout from PayScale, showing the following figures for Venezuela as of 
December 7, 201 7: 
Physician / General Practice 
Physician / Internal Medicine Bs.750,900 
1,368,000 
The Petitioner resubmits this printout on appeal, and, comparing the Bs.1,368,000 figure to 
Bs.549,200,000.00 from the accountant's table, states that he "earns almost 400 [times] more" than "the 
maximum amount made by a physician in Venezuela in December 2017." 
The PayScale printout is deficient for several reasons: 
• The printout shows "Salary" information, which does not appear to take into account other forms 
of remuneration such as bonuses and foes for specific services. Without knowing such figures, 
both for the Petitioner and for others in his field, a fair comparison is not possible. 
• The Petitioner is an orthopedic surgeon, not a general practitioner or internist. 
• The Petitioner earned remuneration not only as a physician, but also as a university faculty 
member. There is no indication that the individuals surveyed for the PayScale chart held paid 
academic positions. 
• The chart refers to the above amounts as both "Average" and "Median Salary," but the terms are 
not necessarily interchangeable. (For data sets with wide ranges of values, the arithmetic mean 
may differ significantly from the median.) 
• The chart shows the same figures for the "Average" and "Max[imum]" salaries. 
• The chart does not specify the interval of the salaries ( e.g., weekly, monthly, or annual). 
• An annotation on the chart shows that only 10 individuals provided salary information. This 
sampling is too small to support any larger or general conclusions. 
The Petitioner's claim of high remuneration rests on incomplete, uncorroborated, and questionable 
numbers. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with respect to 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
5 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the significance and recognition of his medical career are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5827043 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business analyst, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Director of Business Analysis for~I ---------~~ subsidiary ofLJ D Financial Corporation. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commanding a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We will not disturb these findings. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work 
of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and original contributions of major significance under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner 
has satisfied the criterion relating to judging, but not relating to contributions, as discussed below. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner stated that he 'judged the 2018 I I Business Awards, one of thel IA wards 
presented each year ... [ and] also judged the 2018 I IA wards." The Director acknowledged 
that the Petitioner was named as a judge, but found that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary 
evidence to establish that he actually participated as a judge for those awards. 
2 
We disagree with the Director's finding. The initial submission included a certificate presented to the 
Petitioner "for judging the 20181 !Business Awards." The wording, on its face, implies that 
the judging had already taken place, and the record does not indicate otherwise. Scoring took place online 
over a period of weeks or months, with no indication that judges were presented with records of individual 
votes cast. The sign[ficance of this judging activity is a matter for discussion in the final merits 
determination, below. 
We do agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown that he actually participated as a judge 
for thel IA wards. The acceptance message from that entity reads, in part: "After you have 
completed your scoring, the last page will have the details on how to request a certificate of appreciation." 
The record does not show that the Petitioner ever received such a certificate, and there is no alternative 
evidence that the Petitioner "completed [his] scoring." 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner stated that he "made significant contributions while developing~-------~ 
Compliance Program in response to thel I regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act; his 
contributions have also had major impact as they influenced the development of the I !program at 
over 50% of the market." An associate general counsel atl I elaborated: 
While designing the program that would hel~ I meet the spirit and intent of the 
regulation, [the Petitioner] created a tool that combined a number of top-down and 
bottom-up assessment techniques to determine I I applicability for all financial 
instruments within the bank .... This tool enabled I I to quickly determine how 
the regulation applied to its activities and build the necessary controls for compliance over 
a period of only several months. In comparison, other regional banks took over a year to 
complete the same activity. This also allowed I I to lead the way for other 
regional banks by sharing information on best practices and set the bar for i~ I practices. . . . [T]he same principles could be applied to other programs withinL___J 
[The Petitioner] also developed the process for the CEO to provide his attestation annually 
with very few moving parts in a cascaded accountability model that ... was different and 
more efficient than other traditional CEO attestation processes. 
The Petitioner stated: 'The regional banks that participated inl ts Regional Banking Group 
meeting to discuss ... constitute over half of the banks in the KBW Bank Index," which "track[ s] the 
performance of the leading banks and thrifts that are publicly traded in the U.S." The Petitioner named 
3 
the banks participating in the Regional Banking Group, and asserted, through counsel, that his work has 
had an "impact ... on over 50% of the market." 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence from any of the other named banks to show that those banks have 
adopted the compliance tools that the Petitioner developed; their involvement in conference calls is not 
evidence of that adoption. The Director requested evidence of widespread implementation of the 
Petitioner's methods, to show that the Petitioner's contributions were "of major significance to the field 
instead of just the petitioner's organization." 
In response, counsel for the Petitioner stated that, owing to privacy concerns, "bankers tend to be the most 
taciturn amongst all professionals" and therefore the Petitioner "is unable to provide any additional 
documented evidence from external parties." Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter 
of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 
503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
The Petitioner, through counsel, asked the Director to consider previously submitted letters "under the 
secondary evidence rule." This refers to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l)(ii), which reads: 
The non-existence or other unavailability of required evidence creates a presumption of 
ineligibility. If a required document, such as a birth or marriage certificate, does not exist 
or cannot be obtained, an applicant or petitioner must demonstrate this and submit 
secondary evidence, such as church or school records, pertinent to the facts at issue. If 
secondary evidence also does not exist or cannot be obtained, the applicant or petitioner 
must demonstrate the unavailability of both the required document and relevant secondary 
evidence, and submit two or more affidavits, sworn to or affirmed by persons who are not 
parties to the petition who have direct personal knowledge of the event and circumstances. 
Secondary evidence must overcome the unavailability of primary evidence, and affidavits 
must overcome the unavailability of both primary and secondary evidence. 
The Petitioner has not submitted documentary evidence, either primary or secondary, to show that "over 
50% of the market" has implemented his methods. The Petitioner also did not submit two or more sworn 
affidavits to that effect from individuals with direct personal knowledge of the event and circumstances. 
The Petitioner cited three unsworn letters, none of which indicate widespread adoption of the Petitioner's 
compliance tool. An official at I I stated that the "approach was ... shared b~ lwith 
other regional banks," but this does not show that the other banks implemented that approach. The other 
letters ( one of which is from a former co-worker who worked with the Petitioner on the I I 
compliance issue) praised the Petitioner's method but did not indicate it was in wider use. The submitted 
evidence also does not show how the Petitioner is in a position to know that a significant number of major 
banks have used his method. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not shown his contributions to be of major significance to the 
field as a whole, beyond his own employer. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again refers to the letters submitted with the initial filing of the petition. In 
particular, the Petitioner states that a senior vice president at I I "specifically discusses how [ the 
Petitioner's] work has major significance in the industry." The Petitioner then quotes two paragraphs of 
4 
the I I official's letter, but the quoted passage does not show, or even imply, that other banks 
use the Petitioner's compliance tool; there is, instead, the more general statement that the Petitioner's I !compliance tool "establishes the framework for using similar analytical skills to develop 
other compliance and risk management programs." Separately from that program, the Petitioner "has 
also developed expertise in the overall field of risk management on account of his performance in a 
number of key enterprise programs that are critical to support any [large] financial services com~ 
(When the Petitioner, through counsel, listed the banks that are said to have implemented the tool,L__J I lwas not among them.) 
The submitted evidence shows that the Petitioner's work has been important to ~I ---~I but does not 
extrapolate to major significance in the field. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner has held various positions atl lsince completing his master's degree in 2012. 
The record lacks an organizational chart to show precisely where the Petitioner stands in the 
company's hierarchy, but the record includes several letters from officials who indicate that the 
Petitioner is under their authority. His importance to the company derives not from his rank, but from 
the work he has done for his employer. A senior business director atl !Financial Corporation 
stated that the Petitioner "leads a number of keyOManagement functions" including the 'I I 
OProgram" and '1 I Program." The importance of these functions and programs led the 
Director to grant that the Petitioner performs in a critical role forl ~ The importance of the 
Petitioner's role within the company is also evident from his high remuneration (which the Director also 
acknowledged) and from documentation of internal recognition for his contributions to various projects. 
But the Petitioner's importance to his employer does not necessarily translate to sustained national or 
international acclaim throughout the field. The record contains only minimal, anecdotal information 
about the Petitioner's reputation beyond his employer. We have already discussed the Petitioner's 
assertion that, owing to confidentiality requirements and general banking culture, he cannot submit direct 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
evidence of the impact and influence his work has had on other banking institutions. The question 
necessarily arises as to how the Petitioner himself could be aware of that impact and influence in the 
absence of evidence. 
Much of the information and evidence submitted on appeal pertains to the Petitioner's judging activity. 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have "been asked to judge the work of others," but the record shows 
that the Petitioner applied to judge the awards, by clicking links on the awarding entities' websites. 2 The 
distinction is significant because to be singled out for a personal invitation to serve as a judge may be a 
sign of one's standing in one's field. In contrast, open solicitation for volunteers does not entail that kind 
of recognition. 
The awarding entities accepted and approved the Petitioner's applications to serve as a judge, but the 
record lacks important information about the application and approval process. Most significantly, the 
record does not reveal how the entities determine whether to approve or deny a given application. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown that approval of a judging application reflects existing acclaim in 
business. Likewise, the record does not show that being publicly identified as a judge results in, or 
contributes to, acclaim in the field. The Petitioner submits no documentary evidence about the reputations 
of the awarding entities apart from self-serving promotional materials and press releases from the entities 
themselves. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The link on thee=J Awards' website reads "You Be The Judge," and the link on the._l -----~ Awards' website reads 
"Volunteer To Be A Judge -Apply Now." 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5960528 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States in November 2016 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure, a 
classification that does not permit employment in the United States. After filing the petition, she obtained 
employment authorization and has participated in various fashion shows. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) (the Petitioner judged 
a regional pageant). The Petitioner claims also to have met three other evidentiary criteria, discussed 
below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
has only met the criterion relating to judging the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a three-page letter describing her career to date, including events that 
occurred after the petition's filing date. In this letter, the Petitioner does not directly address the 
evidentiary criteria or show how the Director's findings were in error. The Petitioner also submits 
photographs showing her participation in various projects. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner won the title "Missl I' at the 2015 Missl lbeauty pageant. The Director 
found that the Petitioner did not establish that this title is a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence. We agree with this finding. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that 
she won the "Miss I I' title, but she provides no new information to establish its recognition. 
1 Initially, the Petitioner identified herself as a fashion model and actor. Later, she stated: "My field of expe1tise is Fashion 
business and I am a Model. ... I will continue [to] work in Fashion business as [a] model," although the Petitioner expressed 
an intention eventually to resume acting. 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
This is the only criterion that the Petitioner specifically addresses on appeal. We agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied its requirements. 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
To qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international 
distribution. 
Al I magazine, identified only by itsl I name !Jomo!J, ran a feature on the Miss .... l __ _, 
2015 pageant, including a captioned, full-page photograph of the Petitioner. The translated caption is 
written in the first person, indicating that the Petitioner wrote it herself The Petitioner identified herself 
as a "professional actress and psychologist," listed her interests (such as dancing and writing novellas), 
and described her career goals (such as screenwriting, directing, and performing Shakespeare on 
Broadway). Due to the autobiographical nature of this caption and its lack of details regarding her work, 
this material has not been shown to be about the Petitioner's work in the field. The magazine piece relates 
to her participation in a pageant, and the Petitioner has not shown that competing in a pageant constitutes 
work in the field. 
A second magazine, with thel I name mo8o/Jo, appears to be a newsletter for customers ofc=J 
Bank. The Petitioner did not show that the magazine contains any articles about her, relating to her work 
in the field. Rather, the Petitioner stated that she is the "face ofOBank," and therefore appears in 
many of its promotional photographs. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that either of the submitted magazines are professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not shown that she was the subject of qualifying media 
coverage. On appeal, the Petitioner submits photographs showing her: 
• In advertisements for a mobile communications provider; 
• Appearing "in one of the most famous music video[s] ever released inl t'; 
• Reading poetry on an unidentified "mid Day talk Show" on !MEDI-TV; and 
• Participating in the 2015 Mis~ ~ pageant. 
The above evidence shows that the Petitioner has appeared on television, but the Petitioner has not 
established that these appearances were about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the field. Participation 
in an advertising campaign is not qualifying media coverage; the advertisements, by nature, are about the 
products advertised, and purchasing advertising space is not the same as attracting third-party coverage. 
The Petitioner appeared in a music video for the song 1 I' by ,..__ _____ _,. The creator of 
the video claimed that it was his most successful project, and the Petitioner calls it "one of the most 
3 
famous music video[ s] ever released inl I" but the record lacks documentary evidence to show the 
extent of its distribution. Furthermore, the music video is not about the Petitioner, relating to her work. 
Rather, she essentially played a character in a promotional film that exists primarily to advertise a record. 
Regarding the unnamed !MEDI-TV talk show, the Petitioner stated that she read a Shakespeare sonnet, 
and had "been invited to the show for being the contestant of Miss I O 12015 [ and] to talk about why 
beauty queen beside external beauty needs to be intellectual and talented as well." The Petitioner stated 
that she was also interviewed on Rustavi 2 by the "Executive Producer of Mis~ t and] Owner & 
General Manager ofO Model Management." The accompanying screen captures do not show any 
interview taking place, nor were any interview transcripts provided. In addition, the Petitioner claims that 
"Rustavi 2 is the most successful private television broadcasting company in I O I" but does not 
submit documentary evidence to show that the programs were nationally broadcast on major media. 
The Petitioner has established some degree of media presence in~I --~I but the submitted evidence 
does not meet the requirements spelled out in the regulation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. The Director cited various letters in 
the record, offering general praise for the Petitioner, but the Petitioner does not appear to have specifically 
claimed to have satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 2 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted two letters from the head of~ lfilm studio, stating that they address this 
criterion. One letter indicated that the Petitioner had worked with the company "several times on [a] 
number of commercial productions as well as feature films." Without further elaboration and 
corroborating evidence, this letter cannot satisfy the requirements of the regulation. Films and 
advertisements are not intrinsically artistic exhibitions or showcases, but generally serve a commercial 
purpose. We can give some consideration to the circumstances under which a given film is shown (such 
as film festivals), but the Petitioner has not provided information in that regard. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner lists eight criteria she claimed to have met in responding to the Director's request for evidence, 
but she does not indicate which evidence was submitted to establish which criterion. 
4 
The second letter indicated that the Petitioner is an "Executive Producer of several movie projects ... in 
pre-production," and will "attend the American Film Market and Location Show ... from October 29 
thru November 9, 2018, to showcase [the] above mentioned projects." The Petitioner did not initially 
claim eligibility as a film producer, and the Petitioner does not explain how a "Market and Location 
Show" is an artistic exhibition or showcase, nor does she specify what work of hers was displayed there. 
(By definition, films in pre-production do not yet exist and cannot be displayed.) The show in question 
took place nearly a year after the Petitioner filed the petition in November 2017, and therefore cannot 
establish eligibility as of the filing date. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself: and a critical role is one in which the alien was 
responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner claimed that she fulfilled the requirements for this criterion by appearing in advertisements 
for major brands. The Director acknowledged these appearances, but found that the Petitioner had not 
established that she performed in a leading or critical role for any named organization. 
We agree with the Director's finding. The Petitioner has worked for important clients, but has not shown 
that her appearances in advertisements have significantly contributed to the success or standing of those 
clients. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. The Petitioner did not specifically 
claim to have satisfied it, although she submitted letters that specify the fees she received for appearing 
in various advertisements. The Petitioner did not provide any basis for comparison to show that these 
fees were high in relation to others in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
As above, the Petitioner did not specifically claim to have satisfied this criterion. The Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner had worked in the performing arts, but the record contains no 
documentation of the types described in the regulation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4563711 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general manager in firefighting technology, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be board chairman and technology director at the I l I landthel ] I I in China. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets four criteria. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on membership with the National Technical 
Committee 113 on Fire Protection lTCFP), the I I Fire Standardization Technical 
Committee ( GFSTC), and the I Fire Protection Association ( GFP A). In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 2 
As it relates to NTCFP, the Petitioner presented screenshots showing the following commissioner 
conditions: 
1 See the Petitioner's resume submitted at initial filing of the petition. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
• Experts or technological backbones who are engaged in scientific research, production, 
supervision, inspection, management, and other aspects and are familiar to the standardization 
of business of the professional field and have relatively higher theories and more abundant 
practical experiences; 
• Staff who have professional technical titles of intermediate level and above; 
• Be familiar to and keen on the standardization work, observe the Articles of Association of 
Technical Commission, actively attend various activities organized by the Branch Technical 
Committee and fulfill the commissioners' duties and obligations; 
• Have relatively good writing level and foreign language level; and 
• Work in the organizations or legal persons which are established according to laws in the 
territory of China and are recommended by the working units. 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the commissioner conditions reflect outstanding 
achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the requirements show minimal 
levels of work and experience rather than outstanding accomplishments in the field. 3 Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the conditions of engagement in scientific research, familiarity 
and keenness, and relatively good writing and foreign language skills are tantamount to outstanding 
achievements. In addition, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts 
judge membership with NTCFP. 
Similarly, regarding GFSTC, the Petitioner provided a letter from the secretariat of GSTC outlining 
the following conditions of recruited members: 
• Specialists with a higher theoretical level and relatively abundant practical experience in the 
field of fire protection and standardization; 
• In-service personnel possessing the intermediate level or above professional and technical title, 
or holding the post corresponding to the intermediate or above professional and technical level; 
• Personnel who love the cause of fire technical standardization, are familiar with 
standardization-related jobs and able to actively participate in standardization activities; and 
• An individual shall not be the member of more than three technical committees concurrently. 
Again, the Petitioner did not show that the membership requirements for GFSTC require outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. Further, the record reflects 
that GFSTC focuses on a certain level of experience and titles rather than outstanding 
accomplishments and achievements in the field. 4 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
possessing a higher theoretical level, a professional and technical title, an abundant practical 
experience, and love for the cause of fire technical standardization are indicative of outstanding 
achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that 
recognized national or international experts judge membership with GFSTC. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Likewise, as it pertains to GFP A, the Petitioner presented screenshots reflecting the following 
individual membership requirements: 
• Fire protection engineering technicians of the engineer level or equivalent to the engineer level 
and above; 
• Fire protection professionals have the college degree or above and engaging in fire protection 
jobs for more than five years; and 
• Personages of all circles keen on the cause of fire protection and supporting the work of GFP A. 
The Petitioner did not establish that membership with GFP A requires outstanding achievements of its 
prospective members. Once again, the submitted evidence shows that GFP A membership is 
contingent upon achieving a certain level of engineering and higher education rather than attaining 
outstanding achievements in the field, as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 5 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with GFP A. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that he submitted the "qualifications in the related field of Light 
Engineering and Safety Engineering, which are both representative of [his] field of endeavor." While 
the record contains selected translations for the "Qualification Conditions for Senior Engineers 
Majored in Light Industry Engineering ofl I" "Qualification Conditions for 
Engineers Majored in Safey Engineering ofi f' and "High, Medium and Primary 
Qualifications for Major of !Light Industry Engineering," the Petitioner did not establish 
how evidence relating to the qualification conditions of engineers in thel I show 
that the membership requirements for NTCFP, GFSTC, and GFPA require outstanding achievements. 
Again, this criterion necessitates the Petitioner to show that his memberships in associations require 
outstanding achievements, as judged by reco~nized national or international experts, rather than the 
qualification conditions for engineers in I I 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that he "provided a plethora of original contributions to his field, resulting in 
widespread implementation of his developments, as evidenced by his numerous amounts of patents 
and subsequent business contracts." In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a 
petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field. 6 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
I As it relates to his patents, the Petitioner provided evidence showing that he was named as an inventor 
for three Chinese patents: ' " "~-----------~ I t' and'~------------~' Moreover, the Petitioner submitted contracts 
between SDSIC and various Chinese railroads for the installation ofl I Tn 
addition, he offered contracts between GDSIC and Chinese businesses for the installatio~ o~ I I I for various projects. 
In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish 
it as a contribution of major significance in the field. Although the contracts indicate the business 
activity of SDSIC and GDSIC, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the contracts involved the 
Petitioner's patents, as there are no identifying indicators reflecting that the intended installations 
utilized his patents or inventions. Even if SDSIC or GDSIC used his patents, the Petitioner did not 
show the relevance of the application of his patents inl • I and other construction projects. 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his patents rise to a level of major significance in the overall 
field rather than limited to some construction projects by his companies in China. 7 Again, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the influence of his patents to the greater fire safety field beyond his 
two companies. 
s· ·1 1 th P 1m1 ar y, e 1 . et1t10ner c aims a e mcu e ev1 ence o th th . 1 d d .d fh. IS pu bl" t 1ca 10ns. Alh hth t OU!!I e recor d 
shows that he provided translations of three abstracts entitled, i 
t' l 
I" and l 
I' the Petitioner did not show the significance of this material. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the impact that his written work has had on the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner presented five recommendation letters that praised him for his professional 
achievements but do not demonstrate their major significance in the field. In general, the letters 
recount the Petitioner's patents and claim that "[m]any fire fighting technologies invented by [the 
Petitioner] have obtained patent protection which show that their originality and significance have 
acquired affirmation from the national authorities" I [ 8 Again, patents do not 
automatically show contributions of major significance in the field unless the Petitioner can show that 
the field considers them to be of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level 
required by this criterion. 
Moreover, the letters make broad statements without providing specific, detailed information 
explaining how the Petitioner's contributions are recognized by the field as being majorly significant. 
For instance! ~laimed that the Petitioner "often participates in the revision of industry standards 
and other professional activities which makes him the current status and development direction of the 
firefighting industry in real time." However, the letter does not elaborate on which industry standards 
the Petitioner has revised and how they are considered of major significance in the field. Likewise, 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each. 
5 
.__ _ ___.I discussed the Petitioner's plan "to optimize the setting of fire door and the key points in the 
construction of high-rise buildings," which "has attracted the attention of many fire technical experts 
and the interest of developers of high-rise buildings." Again, the letter does not provide further 
explanation describing the significance or amount of attention and interest his plan has garnered from 
the greater field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his patents and work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.10 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria regarding to memberships and original 
contributions of major significance. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on 
appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.11 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
Although the Petitioner has shown experience in the fire technology and safety field, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4597661 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner attends and swims for the University of .... 1 ----~lin .... l ______ __, 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The record reflects that the Petitioner received nationally 
and internationally recognized awards from swimming events, discussed farther below. Accordingly, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
Further, we find that the Petitioner demonstrated membership with the Uzbekistan .... ! _____ __, 
meeting the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). In addition, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner established published material about her in two major media publications, satisfying the 
published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she 
fulfills three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting successes in some national and international swimming 
events, including at the youth and collegiate levels. In addition, she documented her membership with 
the 2012 Uzbekistan! ~ Moreover, she demonstrated that two media publications 
produced a few articles about her. The record, however, does not reflect that her achievements are 
reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
At the outset, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented her swimming career. Specifically, while 
the Petitioner presented evidence showing her finishes in selected tournaments and championships, 
she did not demonstrate her standings or results in the majority of her other swimming events. For 
example, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that she received a bronze medal at the 2009 
I !Games; three gold medals, five gold medals, and one gold medal at the 2010, 2011, and 
2015 Uzbekistan I !Championships, respectively; and a gold medal and a silver medal at 
the 2016 I I Championships. However, she did not show her placements at any of her 
other swimming competitions. For instance, she submitted a letter froml I 
.__ _________ __.I the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation (USF), who indicated numerous 
swimmin competitions in which the Petitioner partici ated but did not disclose her finishes, such as 
the 2005 Championships 2006 ham ionshi s 2006 I !Games, 2007 
C rnpi7cships, 2007 World 
Championships, 2008 World Junior Swijming 1hampionships, 2009 ~----;:::====:::.' 
Championships, 2009 Championships, 2009 World Championships, 2009 
Indoor Games, 2010 First I !Games, 201 0c=] Ga\lles, 2010 World 
Championships, 20111 I World Championships, 2013l._ _ _.j World Championships, 20141 I 
Games, and 2015 D World Championships. 
Moreover, although the Petitioner participated at the 20121 I she did not establish her 
results or standings. In fact, she offered a letter from I I the 
Uzbekistan National I I, who briefly stated that the Petitioner "was one of 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate 
the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
---~'------~------ranking." Further, the record contains another letter 
from who claimed that the Petitioner "finished among the 
top 40 athletes in the world in the.__ _____ _.ranking." Inconsistencies in the record must be 
resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner provided conflicting letters, neither of which is 
supported by documentation of her official results, she did not demonstrate whether she finished in 
the top 40 or 50 at the 20121 las claimed in these letters. 
In addition, at the collegiate level, she submitted a letter from head coach ofO who 
indicated that the Petitioner placed third at the 2014 ,___ _ _,Championships and second at the 2015 
L-----r:,,...u..........,.pionships. Further,! I stated that the Petitioner won medals during the 2015 
-201 Cham ionships and was named CollegeSwimming.com'sl I swimmer of the Week. 
Whil ~-----' highlighted her swimming career atO the Petitioner did not show her complete 
swimming record with the university. 
The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability 
is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).4 Here, the 
Petitioner's partial account of her swimming history does not meet this very high standard. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her personal swimming 
achievements have garnered her sustained national or international acclaim and that they reflect a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
In the case here, the Petitioner has not established that she received any awards since 2016. In fact, 
besides thel I Open Championships, she has not shown that she has competed against the top 
swimmers since 2015, let alone winning medals or awards, reflecting that she "is one of that small 
percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Rather, the Petitioner has been recently swimming at 
Oagainst other collegiate athletes. She has not shown that she has been competing against renowned 
or accomplished swimmers, demonstrating that her latest "achievements have been recognized in the 
field of expertise." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Again, the Petitioner demonstrated that she was a member of the Uzbekistan I I for the 
20121 I. However, the Petitioner did not show that her single team membership over 
five years ago resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain any media coverage or other 
evidence showing that she received national or international recognition based on her membership 
with the Uzbekistan I I Furthermore, although the Petitioner provided a 2ress release 
from swimswam.org reflecting that she "has one more opportunity to post fast swims inl I 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
4 
meters and ualify for 20161 I competition," she did not establish that she qualified for the 2016 
_______ reflecting continued, sustained national or international acclaim on two consecutive 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3).5 
Regarding published material about her, the Petitioner offered one article (2011) from the Uzbekistan 
National News Agency and three press releases (2015) posted on swimswam.org.6 However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that four pieces published about her are consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that her overall press coverage is 
indicative of a level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very 
high standard ... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she performed in a leading or critical role with USF D the I I 
University Swim Team, and thel I Swim Team. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that her role was reflective of: or resulted in, widespread acclaim from her field or that she is 
considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Again, besides 
letters of recommendation and a few media articles relating to ~ she did not offer evidence 
establishing that she garnered extensive acclaim or recognition from the field. Further, the record does 
not reflect that she held leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with distinguished 
reputations, nor does it show that her roles represent sustained national or international acclaim or a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish her eligibility for 
the benefit sought. Moreover, the Petitioner did not fully document her swimming career. Here, the 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she "represented [USF] at two I I" However, as indicated above, the 
Petitioner did not submit independent evidence to corroborate her assertions. 
6 The Petitioner offered two additional press releases posted on swimswam.org that mentioned her as one of the competitors 
but did not reflect published material about her. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699219 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general management executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates emplo7ent with I I as a partner in Latin America and as I I for I J, a division ofl ~ Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one initial evidentiary 
criterion, leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner argues that 
she meets five additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion before the Director. However, on appeal, she 
argues that she meets this criterion based on her membership with the International Project 
Management Association (IPMA) and the Central Florida Brazilian American Chamber of Commerce 
(CFBACC). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
As it relates to IPMA, the Petitioner presented a letter from~----------~ of IPMA 
Brazil, who claimed that IPMA's board of directors "shall be composed of individuals who have 
demonstrated significant highly [sic] achievements in business, exceptional education, the professions 
and/or public service." In addition, I I indicated that board members should have 
1 See the Petitioner's resume submitted at the initial filing of the petition. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
extensive and relevant leadership experience, at least an undergraduate degree, international 
experience, corporate governance, and the highest moral and ethical character. Moreover, D ~---___.I stated that he "strongly nominated her because of her daily involvement that goes above 
and beyond the call of duty." 
In his letter, howeverJ ldid not elaborate or define IPMA's meaning of "significant[ly] 
high[] achievements" to show that it meets the regulatory requirement of"outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, althoughl I referenced IPMA's by-laws, the Petitioner did not present them 
to support the letter's claims. Moreover, while the Petitioner submits evidence regarding the 
background and mission of IPMA, the documentation does not indicate the requirements for IPMA 
board membership. 3 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that IPMA board membership requires 
outstanding achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
show that the other requirements of education, work experience, and character traits represent 
outstanding accomplishments. 4 Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that recognized 
national or international experts judge IPMA board membership. In fact, according to D I I the IPMA board is "nominated and elected." Thus, recognized national or international 
experts do not judge IPMA board membership rather than based on an election system. 
Regarding CFBACC, she provides a letter from~ ________ ___.of CFBACC, who stated 
that the Petitioner has been "a member of this Chamber of Commerce since 11/1/2018 and on 
11/28/2018 was elected as a new Board members [sic] to serve CFBACC in 2019." However, the 
Petitioner filed the initial petition in June 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, the Petitioner's membership with 
CFBACC will not be considered on appeal. 
Notwithstanding the above, according to CFBACC's bylaws submitted by the Petitioner, "[i]ndividual 
membership shall be available to individuals expressing an interest in the Chamber." Hence, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that expressing an interest in CFBACC is tantamount to an outstanding 
achievements. Moreover, similar to IPMA, "[t]he Board of Directors of the Chamber shall be 
comprised of a total of thirteen (13) elected directors." Accordingly, CFBACC board membership is 
based on an election rather than outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien 
must show in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
4 Id. at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion that the alien's memberships in the associations were 
not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where the alien's membership 
was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a pa1iicular field). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Again, the Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion before the Director. On appeal, she 
contends that she "assessed, evaluated and provided a judgment to companies in the form of reports 
regarding hundreds of high-level executive candidates upon request of large corporations." This 
regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or an allied field of specialization. 5 
She submits a I !Report" for three job candidates, an "Interview Binder" for a job description 
and candidates' reports, and a "Candidate Profile." However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown 
that she participated as a judge of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Rather, 
the evidence supplied by the Petitioner indicates that she prepared summaries based on a 
"methodology" and presented them to employers for them to decide whether the job vacancies should 
be filled by the candidates. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate her designation as a judge, 
nor did she establish that she actually judged the job candidates. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that her reports involved her participation as a judge of the work of others. Without farther 
documentation, her evidence regarding the preparation and summarization of reports is insufficient to 
meet this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For 
example, a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner provides "a sample methodology" claiming that it "applied to a case study for the 
insurance industry." While the evidence reflects a presentation relating to expected talent trends in 
the insurance industry for the next five years, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the presentation 
significantly impacted her field in a major way. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not show the major significance of the "proposed methodology" discussed in the presentation. She 
did not, for example, establish the major influence of her methodology beyond the audience members. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that her previously submitted recommendation letters from D ~----~I and I I "clearly show that the program developed by [her] extraordinary 
ability has been implemented by some of the world's leading companies which span various industries 
such as Aerospace and Defense." Although the letters praise the Petitioner for her "systematic and 
strategic methodology" and discussed how she achieved success in recruiting talent to fill positions, 
they did not elaborate on how her methodology has been of major significance in the overall field 
beyond the companies that utilized her contracted services. 7 For instanceJ ~ broadly claimed 
that the Petitioner's "new method, directly affected the productivity of the business, at [sic] a whole, 
and reshaped industry standards and parameters." Here, I I did not provide specific 
information explaining how the Petitioner's method impacted the greater field beyond an unnamed 
business. While the record contains other letters sufficiently showing that she performed in critical 
roles for specific organizations satisfying the regulation at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and 
distinct criterion, they do not demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the larger field. 
Furthermore, I I speculates on the potential influence of the Petitioner's methodology and on 
the possibility of being majorly significant at some point in the future. For examplej I asserted 
that her methodology "will give benefit to [the] United States ... that could promote economic 
growth," [a]ssessing the potential benefit for the US industry, and its economy ... I would endorse 
that US is expected to benefit from her, in the future," and she "will prove to be crucial in promoting 
revenue growth in organizations she assists." While I I indicates promise in the Petitioner's 
work, he did not demonstrate how her methodology already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of her 
methodology to the greater field has yet to be determined, measured, or established. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact her methodology has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff"d in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that she provided evidence "clearly showing [that she] has commanded a high 
salary when comparing to other Human Resource Specialists (Recruiters) in Brazil." In order to meet 
this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 10 
At the outset, the Petitioner offers and references her response to the Director's request for evidence. 
However, a review of that response reflects that she made numerous unsupported assertions. 
Specifically, the Petitioner claimed to quote various websites and other sources without providing the 
printed screenshots or source material. Likewise, the Petitioner's response contained self-compiled 
tables with figures and statistics; however, she did not submit evidence to corroborate her assertions. 
Because the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence, her uncorroborated claims lack probative, 
evidentiary value. 
Moreover, the Petitioner submits a letter fror I arl d 
who stated that the Petitioner "is a Partner,_ I andl !at I 1 ! a I !Company." In addition,! f indicated that the Petitioner ""oined the company 
in March 2011, and in December 2014 was promoted toL_ ___ --r------7 " Finally, b O I listed her gross payroll for each month in 2018 from and I I 
The Petitioner also presents "Consultant Bonus Calculation" from 2018 for I I 
andl I 
Although the Petitioner argues that she commands a high salary compared to other "Human Resource 
Specialists (Recruiters)" based on her employment with I I and I , , l the 
record indicates that she does not earn a salary as a human resource specialist at either company. 
Instead, the Petitioner receives compensation as a "Partner" and "Head"; therefore, she must show that 
her earnings are high compared to other partners and heads. Although she likens her salary to those 
of human resource specialists, she did not show that she commands a high salary "in relation to others 
in the field," such as other partners or heads in similar companies in Brazil. See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Even if we were to 
compare her salary to other human resource specialists in Brazil, she did not submit supporting, 
independent evidence of those salaries. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
bonuses were significantly high in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one evidentiary 
criterion, she does not meet any additional criteria on appeal regarding to memberships, judging, 
contributions, and high salary. While she claims eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, 
relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.11 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has shown 
experience, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4951737 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher in biomedical engineering , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated ~mployment as a _postdo9tora] fejjow atl I J Jnjyersity School of 
.__ _______ .,.... pursumg research on usmg new I~. _____________ _,J technology 
to correct mutations that cause disease. The record shows that gene therapy for the treatment of 
congenital diseases is a rapidly growing field, and the development of new I lagents is an 
important topic of current research internationally. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for 
journals. In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles 
criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional evidentiary criterion, discussed below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner argues that the Director did not consider all of his documentation and mischaracterized 
some of the evidence submitted. He contends that the testimonial letters, citations to his work, and 
commercialization of and licensing interest in his work demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner references his submission of letters from colleagues and other scientists and experts 
regarding his original contributions in his field.2 The letters summarize the Petitioner's research 
achievements and broadly discuss the potential impact of his research in the fields of biomedical 
engineering and gene therapy. However, they do not establish that his original contributions are 
already recognized as majorly significant within these fields. 
For example,.__ ________ ~·' the Petitioner's doctoral advisor at the University ofl I 
reviews some of the findings of the Petitioner's doctoral research involving thel I 
LJnanoparticle complexes used in gene therapy applications. He credits the Petitioner's research 
in gene therapy with having "identified a new, two-pronged strategy in which I ~s delivered using 
one type of nanoparticle and then intracellular release of the cargo is triggered by a separate agent." 
He lists several scientific teams that have cited to the Petitioner's work, including! I 
from Brazil who "describe an application of a two-pronged delivery strategy similar to [the 
Petitioner's] work." He states that the Petitioner's work provides new insights into the properties of I I nanoparticles . 
.__ _______ ~ the Petitioner's current postdoctoral mentor atl explains that the 
Petitioner's main area of research in the field of gene therapy involves the use of the protein 
I Ito correct mutations in the gene that causes He indicates that the 
Petitioner has worked to optimize the ability of.__ ____ ~ to be delivered into airway stem cells 
by modifyin cph:ure condjfions, and has designed correction sequences for nearly 100% of mutations 
that cause ~l ---~- states that the Petitioner's leadership of the I !editing group for 0 
at was critical for securing a $1.5 million research grant from the I I 
.__ ________ ~and $1 million in additional private funding. He praises the Petitioner's 
"leadership in developing a creative and novel approach to potentially curing a devastating genetic 
disease." He indicates that the Petitioner has published 10 journal articles, in highly-ranked journals 
such as Molecular Pharmaceutics, that have received 118 citations in total, which he characterizes as 
"a respectable amount for any scholar, and an impressive number among his peers in the field." 
However, the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner's research findings, while original, 
are already recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. 
,,__ ___ ...i.....::a::;:;:ls;:..;o provides that the Petitioner has been part ofl l's collaboration with I~-~ 
~---.---~-~ to improve in vivo ene therapy, and the Petitioner's ongoing research has been used 
b to market the ariants that he identified. The record includes a letter fron0 
senior director of R&D, confirming that the company "commercialized 
.__p_r_o_d_u-ct_s_b_a_s_e_d_o_n_[t_h_e_P_e_t_.itioner's] research involvin~ !variants," and a letter froml~-~ I I expressing interest in licensing some of the Petitioner's work. However, the Petitioner 
has not provided evidence that the marketed research findings of the Petitioner, or the evidence of 
interest in licensing his work, have already affected the field of biomedical engineering or gene 
therapy, so that we can conclude that the Petitioner's research contribution has had a significant 
influence on his field. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
~-------~ a postdoctoral research scientist at the University o ~--------~ 
states that his team has cited to the Petitioner's research findings and indicates that the Petitioner's 
"information on the behavior of nano articles within human cells" was "instrumental" in aiding their 
experiment's success . .......,. __________ ~ a professor of chemistry at the University of I ~ and CEO o asserts that the Petitioner's work indicating that the 
presence of th_~----~~ may affect the behavior of the studied nanoparticles "highlights a 
significant vulnerability of conventional research methods to characterize the biological activity of 
nanoparticle-based therapies." I I a professor of chemical engineering a~ I 
University, states that he has previously cited to the Petitioner's work on multiple occasions, and 
asserts that the Petitioner's research "provides critical information for the farther development o~ I 
I I agents necessary to advance gene therapy." 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he provided a letter from 
~----------;::::=::::=..-=a~p:::..:r:...:::o:...:::fe=.:s:.:;sor of pediatrics and genetics atl I University 
and co-chair of thel I Foundation Grants Review Committee. He explains that although I I gene editing has been attempted, "the inability to achieve high level~ne correction 
in airway stern cells has prevented the clinical applicability of the technology to curq__J He indicates 
that the Petitioner's work is significant because he has successfully developed methods that achieve a 
high level of correction of a cornrnonOnutationJ l when compared to previous attempts. 
Overall, the letters recognize the originality, importance, and prospective benefit of the Petitioner's 
work, but do not contain detailed information showing the unusual influence or high impact the 
Petitioner's contributions have already had on the overall field. These and other letters not specifically 
mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show that the Petitioner's original Jork has added 
~cant value to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened avenues for farther I 
L__J gene therapy research. The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of 
attention he has received reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the field 
of biomedical engineering or gene therapy has regarded his research as authoritative. Here, the 
Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or 
high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 3 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att '.r Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
In addition, within the Petitioner's RFE response, he submitted updated information from Google 
Scholar reflecting 159 cumulative citations to his published research. The Petitioner maintains that 
his two highest cited articles in 2016 earned more than the average number of citations for articles in 
the same field, published the same year, placing them among the "top 10% most cited papers across 
the entire field for their years of publication." The Petitioner's evidence in support of this claim 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
included a printout from Incites Essential Science Indicators by Thomson Reuters, showing a table of 
"Baseline-Citation Rates" for papers published by field for 2008-2018. The line for "Molecular 
Biology and Genetics" indicated that the documented citations of the Petitioner's two highest cited 
articles in 2016, cited 26 and 19 times, respectively, do, as claimed, exceed the 7. 99 average citations 
for that year in that field. Regardless, the comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates 
does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions in the field. Once again, the issue 
for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field rather than where his citation rates rank among others in his field. Here, a more appropriate 
analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited 
articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that his published articles 
through citation numbers and percentiles resulted in an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. 5 
The Petitioner also submitted articles and excerpts of articles that cited to his work as evidence that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. A review of the sample articles, 
though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field be ond the 
authors who cited to his work. 6 For instance, the Petitioner rovided an article titled 
.__ ______________ ___, (Journal of Polymer Science, Part A: Polymer Chemistry), 
in which the authors cited to his 2016 Accounts of Chemical Research article. 7 However, the article 
does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the 63 other cited papers. In the 
case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level of 
"major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner states that his articles have been published in leading outlets in his field, 
including Accounts of Chemical Research, ACS Nano, Soft Matter, and Journal of Physical Chemistry 
C. This claim appears to be based on data compiled by Google Scholar and from "Impact Factor" data 
provided by the journals' own websites. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication 
of his articles in highly ranked journals establishes that the field considers his research to be an original 
contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor 
is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's influence or the 
impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically 
indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that 
publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
5 Id. at 8-9. (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice rrom others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 Id. at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
Petitioner has not established that his professional accomplishments have placed him among the upper 
level of his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4655136 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[ n] provider of chronic care management products and services seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not established that the Beneficiary satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must 
meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing the Petitioner, a provider of chronic care management products, employed the 
Beneficiary as its senior mobile applications developer. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary had not 
met any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Beneficiary meets seven of the evidentiary criteria, as discussed below. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we find the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies 
three of the criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets this criterion because several "prestigious groups in 
healthcare have ... sought to work with [the Petitioner] and want to develop applications with [the 
Beneficiary.]" It lists several healthcare providers and universities as examples of these groups, and 
the record reflects the Petitioner's business relationship with these and other entities. 
However, the criterion requires that the Beneficiary, not the Petitioner, be a member of the association 
or organization. Here the Petitioner does not submit evidence, such as bylaws or other documentation, 
demonstrating that these organizations extend membership to individuals. It further does not provide 
materials showing how the Petitioner's partnerships equate to the Beneficiary's membership in these 
entities, or how its partners' desire to develop applications with the Beneficiary constitutes 
membership or otherwise establishes that the Beneficiary holds such a membership. Even had the 
record included this information, the Petitioner does not provide evidence showing that these 
organizations require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national 
2 
or international experts in the field of applications development. For these reasons, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this 
criterion as it provided published material about it, rather than about the Beneficiary related to his 
work. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director erred by "failing to recognize that any 
publication documenting the success of [ the Petitioner] is by necessity praising the abilities and 
contributions of [the Beneficiary]."1 
Here the record contains numerous articles about the Petitioner, its products, and its business 
activities. 2 For example, the articles ' " 
~hed online at www.hughhuffaker.com3 and ~-----------------~ 
L__J' published at www.thesiliconreview.com, focus on the Petitioner and contain interviews with 
its chief executive officer. The record also includes articles about its products, such as the article 
I published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth and 1 I 
t oublished on I 
www.cobioscience.com. '-t In addition, the marketwatch.com article I I 
relates to the Petitioner's business activities. However, in order to 
establish eligibility for this criterion, the published material should be about the Beneficiary relating 
to his work in the field, not just about his employer. 5 Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. 
1 We note briefly the Petitioner's appellate argument that the Director erred in failing '"to acknowledge the extensive 
documentation of the circulation of online articles submitted in support of the petition." While the record includes online 
circulation statistics for most but not all. of the publications' websites, the Petitioner does not provide comparative online 
statistics establishing that they are high relative to others, or otherwise demonstrating that they rise to the level of major 
media. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that evidence of published material about the 
alien in major media should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics.). 
2 While we discuss a sampling of the articles here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
3 The Petitioner does not provide evidence regarding www.hughhuffaker.com, such as online circulation statistics, or other 
materials, which may establish that its circulation is high relative to others, or otherwise demonstrating that it qualifies as 
a major medium. See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. l, supra, at 7. 
4 The Petitioner does not provide additional information about J_J,1/R mHealth and uHealth or about cobioscience.com 
which may establish that either is a professional publication or major trade publication or a major media publication. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion as he "has served on several panels 
judging new technological innovations and the application developments associated with different 
telehealth products." However, the Petitioner does not submit evidence corroborating this assertion, 
such as correspondence confirming the Beneficiary's participation as a judge, materials identifying 
him in such a role, or other relevant documentation. The Petitioner therefore has not established that 
the Beneficiary participated, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the 
field of application development as required. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserts that as the Beneficiary's work was displayed at numerous conventions and 
conferences, he meets this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has artici ated in 
numerous conferences and conventions includin the s 15th 
Annual Pow Wow and the.__ ___________ __, Investor Conference. However, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as information on displays, conference materials, or other 
relevant documentation, showing that the Beneficiary displayed his work at these events. 
Moreover, the evidence in the record reflects that these conferences were primarily commercial in 
nature. For example, an article about the Pow Wow states that it is "designed to provide a 
'------------~ update to community primary care providers sur eons s ecialists as 
well as medical oncologists & radiologists." A press release about.__~ __________ .,.. 
Investor Conference notes that its focus is on "opportunities in the areas of.__ _________ _, 
health." However, this criterion requires evidence that the Beneficiary's 
.__w_o_r_k_b_e_d-is_p_l-ay_e_d_a_t_a_rt_i__,stic exhibitions or showcases. 6 For these reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director, in determining that the Beneficiary did not meet this criterion, noted "there is no 
supporting financial documentation ... demonstrating the beneficiary's actual earnings for any period 
of time." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it provided financial documentation in the form of the 
Beneficiary's paystubs both with its initial submission and in response to the Director's September 
2018 request for evidence (RFE) that "demonstrate that [the Beneficiary] earns $122,000 compared to 
other Mobile Application Developers who earn an average of $55,000 to $60,000 annually." 
Upon review of the record, we note that while both the brief submitted with the initial petition and 
with the RFE list paystubs as part of the included documentation, this financial documentation is not 
contained therein. Absent verifiable evidence of his earnings, the Petitioner has not established the 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
4 
amount of the salary commanded by the Beneficiary. We note farther that even had the record 
demonstrated the Beneficiary's salary or other remuneration, it lacks evidence, such as geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys, 7 establishing that his salary is high relative to other 
mobile application developers, as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not shown that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the five 
criteria relating to membership, published material, judging, artistic display, and salary. Although on 
appeal the Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary meets criteria related to leading or critical role 
and original contribution, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them as the Beneficiary cannot 
meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 11. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699024 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a[ n] film director and producer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television and film director and producer holding a Master of Science degree in 
cinematography and TV production from thel !University of Culture and Arts. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the following 
evidentiary criteria: awards at § 204.5(h)(3)(i); original contribution at § 204.5(h)(3)(v); scholarly 
articles at § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); and leading or critical role at § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner fulfills the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion throu h awards received b the televised concert I I and the movies and I I 
She also claims to meet this criterion through her receipt of the .__ ______ _.Ukraine Football 
League medal and thel I award from Ukraine for her "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine 
at the time of anti-people power." 
As it relates to I l the Petitioner provides translated screenshots from the award's 
website https://teletriumf.au, the award's criteria, translated screenshots of the program's credits from 
gordist.com, and the abovementioned letters. The screenshots from teletriumf.au confirm that in 2006 
this program received the Teletriumf award for'~-------------" and the award 
criteria establish that it is a nationally recognized award granted for excellence in the field of 
filmmaking. 
2 
In addition to being a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, the 
regulation provides that the focus should be on the Petitioner's receipt of the awards or prizes.1 In the 
instant petition, however, the record indicates that an entity, as opposed to the Petitioner, received the 
award. For example, the screenshots from teletriumf.ua attribute the film award to ,j l" 
and the translated screenshots of the program credits from gordist.com indicate that the production is 
copyrighted by Alternatively, in his letter of recommendation! I 
director of the '-------,----------,-----'' states, '~received this prestigious 
national award for the project 2006 .... " Discrepancies in this documentation 
notwithstanding, the record indicates that eithe ~----~orD received the award. 
However, an individual may also be considered to be a recipient of an award if they are integral to a 
group's winning of that award. The tr n 1 r r m r <lits from gordist.com show that the 
Petitioner was the "2nd TV director" for andl l's correspondence 
notes that the film was "directed by~----~" However, the record lacks information about the 
role of a 2nd TV director that might demonstrate how this role is integral to the success of a film or 
television production. I l's correspondence similarly lacks specific examples of how the 
Petitioner's work was integral tol I receipt of this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
established that she was a recipient of the Teletriumf award forl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director failed to account for awards received by the 
films I f andD However, the record lacks evidence sufficient to establish that these 
films received awards or prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of film or television direction. With regard to I l the record contains printouts from 
IMDb.com, journeyman.tv, myzff.com, www.pelicam.ro, and Microsoft.com as documentation that 
she meets this criterion. The printouts fromjourneyman.tv, myzff.com, and Microsoft.com contain a 
synopsis of the movie and identify the producer, but do not indicate that it received any awards. 
The record also includes letters of recommendation froml I chief executive officer of 
andl I movie director and producer noting that it "received 
~s_p_e-c1-.a-l-jury--p-ri_z_e_f_o_r~the "Best International Feature" at the ~ j film festival in 2015." 
However, the record lacks documentary evidence substantiating ~----~s and I Is 
assertions, such as a copy of the award, media reports, or other relevant materials, nor does it establish 
that the special jury prize for this festival is internationally or nationally recognized for excellence in 
the field, as required. In addition, the information from IMDB.com indicates thatl I 
received nominations at several festivals, but received no awards or prizes at these events. 
As it relates to I I the Petitioner provides a screenshot from Amazon and a Wikipedia entry 
containing a synopsis of the film with information about its director and an article from https://wff.pl 
mentioning the film as a nominee for "the main award -.__ ______ ~l~irector A ward 
and Special Jury award." However, the record lacks evidence establishing thaL____}eceived one of 
these awards at the I l or establishing that the film received prizes or awards at other 
festivals. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
Finally, regarding the Petitioner's receipt of awards from the I t Ukraine Football 
League, and from the l I for her "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine at the 
time of anti-people power," the record contains a photocopy and translation of each. However, the 
record lacks evidence that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field of film production, as required. 
For the abovementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has she made original contributions but that she has been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues that her development of "the innovative and unique lighting concept" for a 
television production that "created a visual effect of a performer's disappearance from one part of the 
stage during the performance and his/her appearance at another part" demonstrates that she meets this 
criterion. As evidence, she refers to the aforementioned correspondence from and I I wherein they both stated, "[the Petitioner's] idea of the 1 I style was so unique 
that many directors began to use it in their productions." However, the record lacks evidence 
corroborating these assertions, such as letters from television or movie directors who have employed 
this technique, or other materials demonstratin that the technique was originated by the Petitioner 
and has been widely implemented. Similarly, writes that the Petitioner used "an 
overhead camera which was positioned on rails" in her work o~ ________ .,,..., and that this and 
other "innovations have been adopted by others in their work," but this is also not supported by 
documentary or testimonial evidence. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack 
specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 2 
For this reason, the documentation in the record is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner published a 2018 article titled '..._ _________ __. I I' in Issue 38 of the journal Herald of KNUKiM, 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
Series of Art History, a publication of the I I University of Culture and Arts. 3 The 
Petitioner also provides evidence demonstrating she published a peer-reviewed book titled 'I I 
' This is sufficient to show that she meets this ~--------------------~ criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion through her "leading and critical" role forD and 
references a letter froml I provided in response to the Director's September 2018 request 
for evidence in support of her claim. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a 
petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 5 
In his correspondence.I I argues that the Petitioner's leading role is "confirmed by [the 
Petitioner] moving into a new prestigious role of the Director/Producer, the highest position in the 
world of film and media production." However, the record lacks evidence, such as an organizational 
structure fore=] which might establish the leading nature of her role withinO including how her 
position relates, for instance, to other directors and to executives such asl I 
As it relates to her critical role for the organization,~----~ asserts, "clear evidence of [the 
Petitioner's] leading and critical role in our company is her leadership in our most complex and 
prestigious projects, all of which resulted in the highest rating of our broadcasts." However, this letter 
does not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record contain adequate corroborating 
evidence, regarding the impact of her work on television and movie ratings and other indicia of 
success, or otherwise demonstrate how her role as a director has had been of significant importance to 
the outcome of D's activities. 
~----~I also claims that 'D completely owed receiving of "Teletriumf'' Award ... to [the 
Petitioner's] work, her ingenuity, her talent, and extraordinary ability in the filmmaking industry" and 
that this "confirms [ the Petitioner's] leading and/ or critical role within c=]." However, his letter 
does not off er sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record contain adequate corroborating 
evidence to support these assertions, as we discuss above. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
3 The Petitioner provides an English language abstract of this a1iicle describing its research methodology and conclusions, 
as well as a translation of the journal's cover page and table of contents. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6057007 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lead singer and songwriter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence, and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder, lead singer, and songwriter fotj I an Armenian! lband. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, relating to his 
receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Evidence in the record establishes that the Petitioner has r . ........, ..................... ..1.1.1.LJ......, 
than 15 music awards in Armenia between 2008 and 2018. These awards include .,............_ __ ..--_ _, 
andl lat the National Music Awards, Best~-----~and .~--~ Armenian Music Awards, and various national awards sponsored by major radio and television 
networks in Armenia, among others. The Petitioner's documentation of his awards was accompanied 
by evidence, including media coverage from several sources, demonstrating that the awards 
themselves are nationally recognized, and evidence from the sponsoring organizations confirming that 
the Petitioner, asl Is songwriter and lead singer, was the individual recipient of most of 
these awards. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that this criterion has been met. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his assessment of evidence submitted with 
respect to several other alternate regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Upon review, we 
agree with this assertion, as the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of his petition with respect to certain criteria. An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); 
see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
First, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner submitted published materials about him and his work as a musician 
which appeared in newspapers, magazines, and on-line media, such as news and entertainment 
2 
websites, along with evidence from independent sources providing background information on 
Armenian print publications and digital media. The Petitioner submitted more than 20 articles under 
this criterion. However, the Director did not specifically reference any one publication or article in 
his analysis of the evidence, nor did he reference the supporting evidence submitted with respect to 
the circulation statistics for the publications that have covered the Petitioner's career as a musician. 
Rather, the Director's decision references "websites, biogs, and social media," includes a general 
analysis of the probative value of material published on the Internet, and concludes that "the 
information submitted from the bulk ofblogs and websites have little probative value for meeting this 
criterion." 
The Director's suggestion that all of the submitted evidence was derived from "websites, biogs and 
social media" is erroneous, and we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not adequately review 
the submitted evidence. Accordingly, we will remand this matter for the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted under this criterion, which included both print media and articles published by 
legitimate online news media. 
Next, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not provided sufficient evidence that he 
participated, either individually or as a member of a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim 
that he served as a member of a panel of judges for the 'I t' International Music Contest in 
2014, but referenced only two of more than ten evidentiary exhibits submitted by the Petitioner in 
determining that he did not meet this criterion. The Director also noted that "the regulation [ at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)] cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating subordinate 
employees," an observation that appears to be unrelated to the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
related to his judging of an international music competition. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Petitioner's claim on appeal that the Director did not fully consider the submitted evidence and instruct 
him to re-examine this criterion on remand. 
We further note that the Director declined to review the evidence the Petitioner submitted to satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which relates to the display of the individual's work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual 
arts." We disagree with the Director's determination that the plain language of the regulation renders 
this criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed 
be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was 
displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); see also USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 9-10 (Dec. 
22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that officers 
should use the common dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this 
criterion). As certain exhibitions or showcases featuring performing artists meet the plain language 
of this regulation, the Director should not have summarily disregarded the Petitioner's evidence and 
should re-examine this criterion on remand. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the Petitioner could not satisfy 
the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director noted that the 
Petitioner had submitted evidence that he is the founder and lead singer of the bandl I but 
3 
determined that a band "is not an organization or establishment" and thus the evidence has no probative 
value for purposes of this criterion. Here, we are unable to determine whether the Director considered 
evidence the Petitioner provided in response to a request for evidence (RFE). This evidence included 
documentation related to the company 1 I" as well as a charitable foundation that 
was established by the Petitioner, and was intended to establish that he played a leading or critical role 
for these organizations, rather than simply for the band itself The Director's analysis suggests that he 
considered only the initial evidence submitted in support of this criterion, and for this additional 
reason, we will remand the matter to the Director. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least two additional criterion beyond the two 
already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
Finally, although not addressed in the Director's RFE or denial decision, the record as presently 
constituted does not contain sufficient evidence that the Petitioner is coming to the United States to 
continue work in his area of expertise. Pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), such 
evidence may include letters from prospective employers, evidence of pre-arranged commitments such 
as contracts, or a statement from the petitioner detailing plans on they intend to continue their work in 
the United States. At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a "statement of intent" indicating 
that he "will continue to work in the United States as a singer." However, this brief and general 
statement does not detail his plans for continuing his work consistent with the regulatory requirements. 
For this additional reason, we will remand the matter to the Director. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/ 
HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the 
petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high 
level of expe1iise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5856469 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 27. 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chiropractor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets at least three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the 
benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a chiropractor who has practiced in Australia, Singapore and the United States. She 
received her bachelor of applied science in chiro ractic from the Institute of 
Technology and her doctor of chiropractic from th~------~University of Health Sciences, 
.__ ____ _.I College of Chiropractic. The record reflects that she completed additional certifications 
in an alternative chiropractic technique called Network Spinal Analysis (NSA) which relies on a light 
touch method to improve release tension in the spine and correct misalignments. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
relating to published material and performing in leading or critical role. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
original contributions of major significance in the field and commanding a high salary or other 
remuneration. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree and will 
withdraw that finding. The record contains published articles about the Petitioner and her work in the 
field, but the submitted evidence is insufficient to establish that any of the submitted articles appeared 
in professional publications, major trade publications, or other major media. 
2 
Specifically, the Petitioner provided copies of articles published in various Singaporean publications, 
including The Business Times, Expat Living, EX Magazine, The Executive, SHAPE Singapore, 
Extraordinary Lives Magazine, and the online publication Honeycombers. 
The article that appeared in SHAPE magazine did not mention the Petitioner's name and does not 
identify an author. Rather, the short article rea~romotional piece tori l the 
Petitioner's business in Singapore. It notes thatL__J uses the NSA technique described above, 
briefly explains the technique, and provides the center's prices and website information. Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor).1 While the other submitted articles are about the Petitioner and her work, 
her initial submission did not include objective evidence to support her claim that any of these 
publications are professional publications, major trade publications, or major media. 2 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence intended to establish 
that The Business Times and Expat Living publications are considered major media in Singapore. 3 
With respect to The Business Times, which published an article about the Petitioner titled 1 ~ I I I' in I I 2005, the Petitioner provided a letter from its publisher, Singapore Press Holdings 
(SPH). According to its head librarian, SPH is Singapore's "biggest media company" and "The 
Business Times is a Major Media in Singapore" with daily circulation of over 31,000 copies in 2005. 
The Petitioner also submitted an excerpt from SPH's annual report confirming the 2005 circulation 
figure in a graph that provides the circulation figures for all 17 of the company's daily publications. 
Comparing the circulation of The Business Times to the others, we note that its circulation figures were 
lower than those of 14 other SPH publications. This evidence does not appear to support the 
publication's own claim that The Business Times qualifies as major media in Singapore. For example, 
two daily newspapers published by SPH -The Straits Times and The Sunday Times -had circulation 
figures of over 385,000, while eight others had figures well over 100,000 copies. The Petitioner also 
provided a screenshot from The Business Times website showing that the 2005 article remains 
accessible online, but did not provide evidence of the websites' circulation statistics. 
The Petitioner also submitted partial copies of audit reports published by the Audit Bureau of Media 
Consumption of Singapore Ptd. Ltd. (ABC) for the years 2014 to 2017. While this evidence shows 
that The Business Times was among the daily publications monitored by ABC, the figures reported do 
not establish that its circulation is high in comparison to other daily newspapers in Singapore. 
Accordingly, the evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that "[t]he Business Times is 
equivalent to the (New York Times?) as the Major Business Media of Singapore" or her claim that it 
is Singapore's sole financial and business news publication. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
2 Id. (stating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 The Petitioner did not submit further evidence regarding the other publications that have printed articles about her and 
her work in support of a claim that they are professional publications, major trade publications or other major media. 
3 
The record reflects that Expat Living, which the Petitioner describes as a "monthly lifestyle magazine 
and distinguished resource" created for the expat community in Singapore, has published several 
articles about the Petitioner and her chiropractic practice. The Petitioner states it is "one of the few 
media in Singapore that are audited" by ABC, noting that it has "average net circulation" of over 
16,000 copies. In addition, the Petitioner indicated that Expat Living has 75,000 monthly print readers 
and 300,000 readers online. The 16,471 copy circulation figure is supported by published data from 
ABC, but the Petitioner did not submit sufficient comparative information to establish that the 
magazine is considered major media in Singapore. The Petitioner submitted a very brief excerpt of an 
ABC report in which only Expat Living and one other publication appear and therefore it does not 
establish that magazine's relative standing among Singaporean print media. Further, the record does 
not include corroborating evidence supporting the figures the Petitioner submitted for monthly print 
and online readers. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that her evidence fulfills the evidentiary requirements, we 
withdraw the Director's determination that she met this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that her original contributions have been 
widely accepted and implemented in her field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 4 
The Petitioner asserts that she has "pioneered a dramatically different, and dramatically effective, 
method of providing chiropractic care," which offers "unique benefits" that "help people significantly 
advance their physical, intellectual and emotional state." The Petitioner's evidence includes "before 
and after" photographs of her patients, patient testimonial letters, 5 and a sampling of questionnaires 
completed by her patients. 
While the publ~aterials and other evidence in the record reflects that the Petitioner relies on the 
non-traditional L_J or 1 ~ chiropractic method, the record does not support a finding that 
she pioneered or significantly advanced this technique. Rather, the evidence reflects that she 
completed three levels of training and certification in the method, and applied it to her own practice 
in Singapore. The submitted evidence indicates that the method has been a success for her individual 
patients, and suggests that it may not be widely used in Singapore. However, the Petitioner has not 
established how she has made an original contribution to the chiropractic field by using the existing I I method in her practice. 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that "an impressive range of experts are unanimous in their 
professional opinion that [she] has indeed made major original contributions to the field of chiropractic 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. 
5 While we do not discuss every letter here, we have reviewed and considered all of the letters submitted in analyzing 
whether the Petitioner met this criterion. 
4 
care," we note that she did not submit any letters from experts in the chiropractic field explaining her 
original contributions or their major significance. She submitted letters from professionals from 
various industries who have been her patients and who can credibly comment on the impact she had 
on their personal health; none of the individuals who provide letters purport to have expert knowledge 
of the Petitioner's field. For example,I I an executive in an unrelated industry, asserts that 
after receiving the Petitioner's treatment, "the persistent tension in my neck and upper back ... was 
all but gone within a few weeks," and notes other benefits of her treatment. She also states that the 
Petitioner "stands out in her capacity to consistently produce results not normally seen by her peers," 
but it is unclear what on knowledge or experience this opinion is based. I I an 
entertainment industry executive, states that she was "struck by [the Petitioner's] extraordinary talent 
to effect powerful and positive change in my body and overall well being" and praises her "rare talent." I I a marketing communications executive, states that she is the Petitioner's long-time 
patient and praises the Petitioner's "specialized approach" noting its "unique and phenomenal" 
benefits that she has not been able to receive from other health care professionals. 
Letters from experts may add value if they specifically articulate how a petitioner's original contributions 
are of major significance and what impact they had on subsequent work, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 The letters submitted by the Petitioner commend her 
abilities as a chiropractor, establish the beneficial impact she has had on individual patents, and 
demonstrate that she has attracted some high profile clientele, but they are not from experts in her field 
and do not explain how she has made original contributions that have widely impacted the field. After 
review of the reference letters and other relevant evidence addressing the Petitioner's work as a 
chiropractor, the evidence in the record is insufficient to establish that she has made an original 
contribution in her field by offering the I I treatment technique to her patients. 
We have also considered evidence related to contributions the Petitioner has made through her 
charitable work. Specifically, the record reflects that she established~-------~to bring 
her treatment method to young victims of sex trafficking in Cambodia. The Petitioner provided 
evidence that, as a result of this work, she was awarded al 1 I A ward 
at the I I Summit in 2006. The evidence indicates that 
Petitioner's I I chiropractic meihod has been beneficial to this vulnerable population. 
However, absent evidence that her work with victims of abuse has made a wider impact on the 
chiropractic field beyond her own charitable foundation, the Petitioner has not established that she has 
made an original contribution of major significance. 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, the evidence in the record is insufficient to establish eligibility 
for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served in a leading role as the director and founder of I I in Singapore, and 
sufficient evidence to establish that her chiropractic center has a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's finding that this criterion was met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has 
earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar 
services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of invoices and evidence of payments 
from various clients to establish that she meets this criterion. However, the Director emphasized that 
she did not submit objective evidence, such as tax documents, demonstrating her actual pay or 
remuneration for any given period of time in support of her claim that she had "commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of payments received from individual clients, 
including copies of invoices, bank statements. She also includes letters from clients, who confirm the 
amount they pay the Petitioner for each session and state that her rate per session is significantly higher 
than that of other chiropractors. However, the Petitioner has not supplemented the record with 
evidence of the actual salary or other remuneration that she has commanded for her services, such as 
tax documents corroborating her earnings in any given year. 
Therefore w1le the Petitioner has submitted comparative hourly and annual salary information for I ased chiropractors from various reliable sources, she did not provide the information 
needed to compare this information to evidence that she has commanded a high salary in the past. 
Rather, the Petitioner has extrapolated her expected weekly, monthly, and annual remuneration in the 
United States, based on her price per session, anticipated number of clients, and the number of 
expected sessions per client. While this evidence indicates that she has the potential to earn a high 
salary, it does not meet the requirements for this criterion, which requires us to look at her past 
earnings. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(l). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
6 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5779473 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 30, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a human resources manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as "head of people" at ._I _ ___,I a financial company specializing 
in cryptocurrency. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven of the ten criteria. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to performing in a 
leading or critical role for a distinguished organization under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and 
commanding high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(xi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he also meets three other evidentiary criteria as discussed below. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not satisfied any criteria beyond the two that the 
Director granted. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a graduate ofl I University's.__ _________ __, School n School), 
and claims two qualifying memberships through his continued work on behalf of the ~ool. The 
Petitioner claimed that he "was invited to partner with the ~---------------~ ~---------~ ... the world's leading partnership betweente g{obal human resources 
management industry and academia." The Petitioner is also part of the School's Ambassador 
Program. Ambassadors interview prospective graduate students and provide recommendations to the 
graduate admissions council. 
The dean ofthQSchool stated: 
Since graduation, [the Petitioner] has held roles of increasing responsibility with 
innovative global technology companies like I I . . . It is clear that 
he has been a "superstar" in his field, quickly ascending the corporate ladder. For these 
reasons, he has been routinely invited to attend the "Emerging Leaders" event organized 
2 
by ... I i[which] brings together alumni who are leading (arguably the best) 
professionals in the field of Human Resources and Organizational Development to 
exchange best practices as well as new strategies and programs with thought-leaders from 
I I 
The dean did not state that the Petitioner was "invited to partner" wit~ I only that the Petitioner 
was among alumni who were "invited to attend" ~ I event. The dean added that "Ambassadors 
are carefully chosen for their superior accomplishments and high profile." The ambassadors are alsoc=J 
School alumni, rather than a cross section of the field. 
The Director asked the Petitioner to submit evidence of the membership requirements fotj In 
response, the director of I I stated: ~--~ 
One of the more strategic initiatives ofl I is to help mentor and develop the next 
generation of strategic HR leaders who will go on to take executive roles in global 
corporations .... To this end, we started the Emerging Leaders Program in 2015 where 
we carefully selected invited alumni ... to participate in the program. One of the key 
criteria to be invited to be part of this select group is . . . [a] rate of professional growth 
which far exceeds their other peers .... 
[The Petitioner] is a great example of the criteria elucidated above .... [The Petitioner] 
has been a consistent and valuable addition to thel !Emerging Leaders program 
year after year. 
The Director interpreted the above-quoted letter to mean that I I "is an advanced course of 
instruction in human resources to which the petitioner was invited due to his career accomplishments." 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not show that participation in a "course of study constitutes an 
'association in the field,"' or that admission to the program was contingent on outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's finding that I ~s a "course of instruction." We 
agree that I lis not a course of instruction. Nevertheless, the Petitioner's evidence is deficient in 
crucial ways. The Petitioner submitted no documentary evidence to show that he is a member o±i I 
or to establish the membership requirements to joi~ I even after the Director specwca])y rearested 
such evidence. I I officials praised the Petitioner but never called him a member o ~--~ They 
stated only that the Petitioner routinely participates in "Emerging Leaders," which one official called a 
"program," and another called an "event," a term suggesting a very short-term occurrence. A mentoring 
and career development program or event is not an association, and attendance at such an event is not 
membership in an association. 1 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of I I( as opposed to a participant iJ I 
programs), and therefore the information abou~ I cannot satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
1 Had this case proceeded to a final merits determination, the Petitioner's ongoing participation in the Emerging Leaders 
program would have been highly relevant to the outcome of the petition. The Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification 
intended for individuals who are already at the top of the field, rather than making progress in that direction. A successful 
petition must rest on documented achievements, rather than on expectations, however solidly grounded those expectations 
appear to be. 
3 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not establish that the D School's Ambassador Program is an association in 
its own right, with members chosen by national or international experts in their fields. Rather, the small 
amount of available information indicates that ambassadors are chosen annually from amongst theD 
School's alumni on an ad hoc basis to assist with each year's interview process. 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of any association in the field which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner also contends that his work with theD School's Ambassador Program satisfies the 
criterion with respect to participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specification. 
The dean oftheO School stated the following in a letter submitted by the Petitioner: 
[The Beneficiary] has ... been part of the Ambassador Program ofl I School, 
which assists the Graduate Committee in the admissions process by interviewing 
prospective applicants for the graduate masters program and providing input that is 
important to the final decision made by the [radiate admissions committee. . . . 
Ambassadors are carefully chosen [ from among School alumni] for their superior 
accomplishments and high profile. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not judged "the work of his peers" in "a formal ... capacity," 
but rather had engaged in "mentoring and evaluation of candidates for his school." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director impermissibly introduced new and artificially restrictive 
requirements, such as formal designation as a judge, and that those being judged are "peers" of those 
performing the judging. There is substance to these objections, but the Petitioner has not established that 
he satisfies the criterion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he decides on admissions to the graduate program. Instead, he provides 
feedback which is one of several weighted factors that the admissions committee takes into consideration. 
The record does not include documentary evidence relating to the Ambassador Program to show how 
much weight the evaluation receives or to specify the exact role that ambassadors play in the admissions 
process. The reference to "prospective applicants" appears to imply that the interviewees have not yet 
applied to the program at the time of the interviews, in which case the interview would be a very 
preliminary stage in the admissions process. 
Furthermore, the wording of the regulation calls for participation as a judge of the work of others in the 
same or allied field. The Petitioner notes that "serving as a member of a Ph.D. dissertation committee ... 
satisfies this criterion." In that example, the committee evaluates specific, identifiable work product (the 
4 
dissertation). Sitting for an interview is not work in the field, and the Petitioner has not shown thatD 
School ambassadors evaluate factors other than beyond the impressions they receive during those 
interviews. Also, because the graduate program is for a master's degree, the prospective applicants would 
appear to be undergraduate students who are not yet employed in the field of human resources 
management or an allied field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he has participated as a 
judge the work of the prospective students, in the same or an allied field for which he seeks classification. 
The Petitioner has not submitted detailed, corroborated information about the Ambassador Program to 
show that the Petitioner's involvement amounts to participation as a judge of the work of others. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "authored articles in the field of human resources for major media 
outlets," which is not the wording of the regulation. The Petitioner submitted printouts from two articles 
published online "in a Singapore-based publication called Data Driven Investor." 
The Director found that the Petitioner's published work was written for the general public, rather than for 
specialized, scholarly readership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's definition of "scholarly articles," saying that such a 
definition does not appear in the regulations. The Petitioner contends: "An article is scholarly so long as 
it demonstrates the author's knowledge on a particular subject matter." 
The Petitioner cites an unpublished district court decision from 2008 in support of this argument. In 
contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a U.S. circuit court, we are not bound to 
follow the decision of a U.S. district court, even if that decision is published and concerned a matter 
in in the same district with jurisdiction over the matter under consideration. Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N 
Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). In this instance, the decision is not published, and the case at hand is not within 
the jurisdiction of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, source of the cited decision. Although the 
reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly 
before us, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
One authority that is binding in this proceeding is USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, 
Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's 
Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/ 
legal-resources/policy-memoranda. Elsewhere in the appellate brief, the Petitioner cites this very 
memorandum, and acknowledges its authority. Regarding scholarly articles, the memorandum states: 
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in 
the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In 
general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, 
charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
5 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship"). 
Id. at 9. Furthermore, the cited district court decision focused on the definition of the word "scholarly," 
rather than the phrase "scholarly articles." The regulation does not define "scholarly articles," but that 
phrase is a term of art with an existing consensus on its meaning. 2 This consensus is evident from a 
review of the traits of articles and publications tracked by Google Scholar, https://scholar.google.com/, 
as opposed to the standard Google search engine. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his articles in Data Driven Investor constitute scholarly articles. They 
appear, instead, to be "blog" posts offering general personnel advice to entrepreneurs. 
Initially, the Petitioner also claimed to have satisfied two other criteria, pertaining to published 
material about the alien under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and original business-related contributions of 
major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director found that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied these criteria, and on appeal, the Petitioner does not contest or rebut those findings. Therefore, 
we consider the Petitioner to have abandoned these issues. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 
at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 As a representative example, we take administrative notice thatl I University, where the Petitioner earned his 
master's degree, has a guide for "Distinguishing Scholarly rrom Non-Scholarly Periodicals." This guide differentiates 
between "scholarly or peer-reviewed journal articles," which are typically peer-reviewed, include footnotes, and "assume[] 
some technical background on the pa11 of the reader," and "popular aiticles," which are written for a wider audience. 
Source: http://guides.libraryj ledu/scholarlyjournals/scholarly (last visited Dec. 11, 2019). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration . 
Services 
MATTER OF A-O-R-D-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DA TE: FEB. 4, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a former professor at Brown Mackie College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in education.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act· (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can den1onstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized iii their field through extensive 
·documentation .. 
. The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and two subsequent motions in 
2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3),. which require documentation of a one-time 
achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 2014, we upheld the Director's 2013 decision, and subsequently reaffirmed 
our findings in eight motion decisions between 2014 and 2018.2 
The matter is now before us on motion for the ninth time. The Petitioner has filed combined 
motions to reconsider and reopen, asserting that we should approve his petition because "the 
favorable factors in the case outweighed the unfavorable factors." He further alleges that he has 
shown he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, because in addition to having 
. previously established the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), he claims that he has demonstrated his "receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor," under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Upon review, we will deny the combined motions to reconsider and reopen.3 
1 On page 3 of his petition, the Petitioner indicated that upon the approval of the petition, he would work as a "professor 
of li;iw and economics" in the United States. 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter ofA-O-R-D-l-, ID# 1083126 (AAO Mar. 5, 2018). 
3 With his motion, the Petitioner asserts that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has failed to adjudicate 
five Forms 1-2908 filed between 2012 and 2017. Review of USCIS records shows that all of the receipt numbers 
provided have been adjudicated, either by the AAO or the Director. 
Matter of A-O-R-D-L-
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
· is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements oJ a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANAL YSis· 
A. Motion to Reconsider · · 
. . . 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our last decision, because we concluded that his 
"Innovare Award" and "Honor to Accounting Merit" did not qualify as nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). He further claims that 
he has received three nationally recognized awards that also satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we erred in our previous decision. In his. initial filing in 
support' of his petition, the Petitioner submitted a 200 I . c~rtificate, indicating that he received a 
"Diploma of Merit" for "relevant and good professional services rendered to the accounting 
profession and society." As discussed in our 2014. decision dismissing the appeal, as well as in our 
subsequent motion decision,4 the Petitioner has not submitted credible and sufficient evidence 
confirming that this certificate, issued by a regional authority, constitutes either a nationally or 
internationaUy recognized prize or award in the field of education ... 
In addition, while the Director concluded in his 2012 decision that the Petitioner's "Innovare 
Award" qualified as a nationally rec~gnized award, the record does n·ot support this finding. A 2011 
certificate indicates that the Petitioner "won the Prize Innovare 2005 in the category Single Judge by 
practicing Reconciliation of First Degree." Although the record includes a photograph, purportedly 
depicting his attendance at the award ceremony, and online p_rintouts about the award jssuing entity -
Institute Innovare -as well as its Inno.vare International Awards, the Petitioner has not shown that 
his 2005 award is nationally or internationally recognized. As discussed in our 2014 decision 
dismissing the appeal, as well as in our subsequent motion decisions, the Petitioner has not 
established that his 2005 award was an Innovare International Award, which, according to 
documents in the record, did not exist before 20 I 0. Additionally, the record lacks sufficient 
evidence, such as materials from publications or news outlets with a national or international 
readership or viewership base, confirming· that the Petitioner's "Prize Innovare 2005" enjoys 
recognition on a national or international level in the field of education. 
4 Specifically, in our 2014 and 2015 motion decisions, we again explained the bases upon which we concluded thatthe 
"Diploma of Merits," which the Petitioner references as "Honor to Accounting Merit," does not m·eet-the criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) .. 
2. 
Matter of A-O-R-D-L-
Moreover, as discussed in our 2014 decision, the Petitioner did not initially assert on appeal that his 
other awards and prizes, which he now claims to be nationally recognized, were qualifying under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Furthermore, as we explained in our 2014 decision, the record shows that 
these accolades are local or regional in scope, and are not recognized nationally or internationally. 
The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the "nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards" criterion under 8 C.F.R. §. 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and his repeating of arguments he 
previously made in support of appeal and motions do not meet the requirements for a motion to 
reconsider the matter. He has not established that our most recent decision, dated March 2018, was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy or that it was incorrect based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings atthe time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will therefore 
deny his motion to reconsider the matter. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen the matter. As noted, a motion to reopen 
must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). On 
motion, the Petitioner has not presented either new facts or new evidence in support of his eligibility 
for the classification. As such, he has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not demonstrate that our previous decision was based on 
an incorrect application of law or policy, or was incorrect based on the· evidence in the record at the 
time. In addition, he has not provided documentation in support of his motion to reopen or 
established eligibility for the classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of A-O-R-D-L-, ID# 1574437 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
3 Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF E-S- DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL _OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a chief technology officer,_ seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality · Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
, § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas availabi'e t6 those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive docurnentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a briet: arguing that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been -demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been' recognized in the ·field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien _ seeks to enter the United siates to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial· evidence 
.
Matter of E-S-
requirements. First, a _pet1t10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provi~e documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C_.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
. material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R?jal v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that trye "truth is to be 
determined not _by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a chief technology officer at located in Texas. Because 
he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or _critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that USCIS found that he met the original contributions criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) in a previous filing.1 Thus, he contends that he satisfied three criteria over 
the course of two petition filings. However, each extraordinary ability petition is reviewed on its 
own merits, and we are not bound by decisions of a service center or district director. See La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). ·Moreover, 
we have review,ed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner fulfills the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 See USC IS decision dated, November 3, 20 I 7, for ., 
where the Director determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied the original contributions and leading or critical role criteria. 
2 
.
\... 
Matter of E-S-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in prqfessional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author qf the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains screenshots, such as hufiingtonpost.com, pcadvisor.co.uk, mashable.com, and 
the verge.com, reporting on the release of a computer application, The evidence, 
however, does not reflect published material about the Petitioner.2 In fact, the Petitioner is not 
mentioned in any of the material. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence qf the alien's participation. either individually or on a panel, as a judge qfthe work qf 
others in the same or an allied.field qfspecificationfhr which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he served as a judge for a database module add-on 
competition. As such, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence qf the. alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major signfficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v),-.a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence relating to his development of three 
computer applications, websites, and software: 
As previously mentioned relating to the record contains screenshots reporting on the 
new application, such as theverge.com, mashable.corn, and pcadvisor.co.uk. However, the 
screenshots do not reflect that has significantly impacted the field in a major way 
rather than announcing the availability of a new application. Moreover, the Petitioner submitted 
screenshots from time.com and forbes.com listing as one of the 
and ________ as well as receiving third place at the 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Suhmilled with Certain Form /-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual(AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI /-/4 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
.
Matter of E-S-
Although received initial accolades for its ingenuity and originality, 
the record does not indicate that it garnered honors based on its recognition by the field as being 
greatly influential. The Petitioner, for example, did not show the influence of __ smce 
its introduction. In addition, the Petitioner offered recommendation letters that explained the 
purpose of the application and described his role in its development but do not demonstrate how it is 
considered to have been of major significance in the field.3 For instance, the authors generally 
indicate that it "reach[ es] more than 2.5M users worldwide" Without explaining the meaning of such 
usage numbers and how it establishe~ the impact of the application in the field. 
Similarly, regarding , the recommendation letters confirm his work on the website without 
showing its impact of influence in the field. For example, , co-founder of 
stated that the Petitioner's "exceptional abilit_ies were a key driver in making happen and 
leading to its ultimate acquisition and successful integration within other web assets." 
Although the record indicates that purchased neither nor the Petitioner, 
demonstrated how such acquisition shows that is considered to be a contribution of major 
significance to the greater field.4 Moreover, director of product at indicated 
that the Petitioner "spearheaded the efforts to increase the scale in which the website worked as more 
and more users of [sic] different on line properties came to the site." While 
briefly discussed the Petitioner's post~acquisition work, he did not establish how his contributions 
greatly impacted the overall field outside of · 
Likewise, as it pertains to the Petitioner offered a letter from , chief 
executive officer of who stated' that the Petitioner led the development of, the software 
product at and "was one of the most scalable products in the company allowing to serve 
thousands of customers from a single server." Here, commented on importance of the 
software to ___ rather than showing the impact or influence to the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value.5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 Moreover, USClS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
3 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra; at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
· a finding that a ballroom dancer had no_t met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
· whole). . 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that· letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain ho_w an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance iri the field). 
4 
.
Matter of E-S-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reJJutation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii): 
Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, the record does not reflect 
that he performed in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 7 The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion 
based· on his roles for and Although we agree that the 
Petitioner's roles were leading or critical, he did not establish that the organizations enjoy 
distinguished reputations.8 The record contains screenshots relating to application 
release and acquisition of as well as 2015 tax documentation and 
acquisition agreement. The Petitioner, however, did not show how the evidence 
demonstrates the eminent reputations for any of these organizations. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet his burden of establish that he performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishment that have a distinguished reputation, we withdraw the 
Director's decision for this criterion. · 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant vis.a petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and c_ase law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a_ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855 at *2. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has .. not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 'type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Ntvertheless, we advise 
7 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1; supra, at I 0. 
8 Id. at I 0-11 (defining Merrion-Webst er's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence , distinction, 
or excellence). 
Matter of E-S-
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that .it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
. "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustaineq national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreo·ver, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matten~[ E-S-, ID# 1973171 (AAO Feb. 4,2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-Y-S-. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a theater professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those. who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at 
least three of the criteria: 
Upon de nova review, ,we will dismiss th~ appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been . recognized 111 the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii)' the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
,, 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204:5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i}- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international.acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very_top of the ~eld of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
( 
Visinscaia v. Beers,4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance,' probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a theatrical professor at the in 
Egypt. As the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that· the Petitioner met the following two criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects thatthe 
Petitioner judged two theatrical festivals and authored a scholarly publication. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's decision for these two criteria. In addition, the record demonstrates that the 
Petitioner has directed theatrical performances at festivals thereby fulfilling the artistic display 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore, the Petitioner has established that she satisfies 
at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below. ' 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence , we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim 
and that she is one of the small. percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor , and that her 
2 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
· achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor of arts degree in accounting from 
in 1995; a bachelor of arts degree and a diploma of post graduate studies in acting and 
directing from the___ == in 1999 and 2003, respectively; and a doctor of 
philosophy from in 2013. According to her curriculum vitae, the 
Petitioner was a teaching assistant at from 2003 -2013. In addition, the Petitioner held various 
positions at , from 2009 -2013, such as Arabic instructor, graduate administrative associate, 
. video editing assistant, and graduate research assistant. Most recently, the Petitioner maintained that 
she was "The Head" of in Egypt from November 2014 -
June 2015, and has been a theatrical professor at since Fall 2013.1 As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner judged others within her field, authored a scholarly publication, and displayed her work at 
artistic exhibitions. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective 
of a "career of acclaimed work in .the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that she served as a judge at the in December 2013 and 
at the in May 2016. However, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her two judging instances place her among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to 
others at the top of the field. 
in addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her two judging occurrences in 2013 and 2016 
contribute to a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field". as contemplated by 
Congress or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 
at 59 and section 203(b )( f)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show, for instance, that she 
garnered wide attention from the field based on her work as a festival judge. Without evidence that 
sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that ·she served as a judge of acclaimed 
individuals or of prestigious national or international competitions rather than aspiring students or 
amateurs , she did not demonstrate that she "is one of that small percentage who [ha:s] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F:R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner last .entered the Unite.d Sta.res as a visitor on June 21, 2016. The Petitioner has 
not indicated or documented any employment since her arrival in the United States. 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
Likewise, publication of scholarly work does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored one book, 
, in 2013. The Petitioner, however, has not 
demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991 ). She has not shown that her authorship of one scholarly publication is 
reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of her field or demonstrates the 
required sustained national or international acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of her book can be an indicator to 
determine the .impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether .such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article or book authored by 
a petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that others in her 
field have been influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although the Petitioner submitted screenshots 
from websites offering the availability to purchase the book, such as amazon.com, ebay.com, and 
thriftbooks.com, she did not show that the field has recognized her book as being highly influential 
or as a widely used, standard source. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her book attracted 
a level of interest in her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner, for example, did not provide evidence of the 
citation of her book by others or sales figures to show that .her work is recognized as being at the t9p 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). r 
Regarding the display of her work, the Petitioner indicated that she directed four plays, such as 
acted in six plays and three television shows, and edited three films. 
As it is expected that directors and actresses would exhibit their artistic work in front of audiences, 
we will evaluate the extent to which the display of her work is reflective of acclaim consistent with 
this classification. While the Petitioner presented evidence showing her participation as a director 
and actress, she did not demonstrate, for example, that her work brought wide praise from .critics, 
drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or were responsible for the success or standing of the 
events.2 The Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish her performances or work from others in her 
field or show that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. I 01-723 at 59. 
Beyond the three. criteria that the Petitioner satisfied; we· consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence . demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
2 Although the Petitioner has experience in the theatrical field, she did not claim, nor does the record reflect, commercial 
successes under the regul,ation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
4 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has su~tained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
. . 
As it relates to her awards, the Petitioner provided certificates acknowledging her service and 
participation, as well as financial aid grants to attend higher education. For example, the Petitioner 
submitted an certificate "for Outstanding Contribution and Service in recognition of [her] 
contributions and dedication to the Department of Theatre's Video Archives," a letter from the 
indicating that she received "an Egyptian government scholarship for up to 4 
year[s] in the USA to obtain her Ph.D. degree," and a certificate from the 
for "her effort and participation in the ."3 However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the field recognizes any of these . as prizes or awards for 
excellence. Here, the record does not reflect that she received prestigious awards against acclaimed 
competition throughout her field or was judged by accomplished directors and actors. 
The Petitioner also claims membership with the However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that her membership requires outstanding achievements , as judged by 
recognized national or international experts.4 Further, as she has not shown, for example, that she is 
a member of associations that limit membership to artists with renowned endeavors, her membership 
'-- evidence does not contribute to a finding that she has sustained national or international acclaim. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of t~e Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that she offered four articles reflecting published material about . 
her in major media. While two articles mention the Petitioner as the head 
of they are about the art center. The other two articles 
·reflect published !Tiaterial about her. However , she did not establish that any of the articles were 
published in major media.5 Moreover , the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the articles are 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, she did not show that her limited 
press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.S(h )(2). 
Further, with respect to her c;ontributions to the field, the Petitioner states that she submitted letters 
to show that her contributions "are original, unique and will bring great benefit to the United States 
_ of America." The letters, however, make general asse1tions repeating the statute and regulations 
without providing spe•cific information explaining how her work has greatly impacted the overall 
field. For instance, ________ claimed that the Petitioner "delivered solid 
I 
3 While we discuss a sampling of her awards, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 According to the evidence submitted by the Petitioner, full membership requires individuals to have· received a 
doctorate re_lated to Middle East studies, have taught Middle East studies, or who have made a scholarly contribution to 
Middle East studies. 
5 The Petitioner provides screenshots from Wikipedia , an online, open source; collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly 
states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer. Wikipedia (January 31, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer ; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F."3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
5 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
' performances that highlighted her diverse talents" and "[h ]er research and abilities will continue to 
substantially benefit the United States:"6 did not show how the Petitioner's 
diverse talents have impacted the field or how her research has already benefited the field. 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates. Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not 
\ ' 
provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating 
evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as 
being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, as discussed above, the Petitioner served as "The Head" of However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that enjoys a distinguished reputation. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not establish that her work at this organization has been recognized by the field as being 
significantly important or viewed as unusually influential. The submitted documentation, for 
instance, does not reflect th~t the Petitioner has somehow impacted the field through her work at this 
establishment demonstrating attention at a level commensurate with those at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). · 
The record as a wh()le, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Matter of Price; 20 l&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is 
no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim _and is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2).7 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons dlscussed above, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
· Cite as Matter of A-Y-S-, ID# 1972670 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
6 Although we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered each one in the record. 
7 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated her extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether she intends to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A)(ii). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-S-C-J-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrat.ive Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a tango dancer and teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A); 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form J-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. , 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets at least three of the criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
asclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .. R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
V 
Matter of A-S-C-J-
requirements .. F~rst, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is; a major, 
internationally recognized award). If ;that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must. provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). · 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing,a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of ~riteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed and taught at various venues around the world, including the United 
States. As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of _the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
1he Director found that the Pet.itioner met the following two criteria: published material under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record contains four 
qualifying articles about the Petitioner in major media. In addition, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner judged a tango competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's decision for these 
two criteria. In addition, although the Petitioner never claimed eligibility for this criterion, the 
record shows that the Petitioner has danced and performed at exhibitions thereby satisfying the 
artistic display criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore, the Petitioner has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in 
the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requis,ite. initial .evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is one of the small percentage at· the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
2 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting his involvement with tango dance for over 
. 25 years. For instance, he performed as part of the 
and === In addition, he danced in the film, and in 
productions such as and Most recently, he participated in 
Further, the Petitioner runs the and has provided instruction at 
· dance schools, such as , and to dance students. As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner had four qualifying articles published about him in major media, judged a competition, 
and performed at various venues. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements 
are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published· material about him, the Petitioner offered four qualifying articles in major 
media. S,pecifically, the Petitioner presented three articles from Clarin (2002, 2004, and 2007) and 
one article from La Nacion (2007). While the Petitioner provided other documents, such as 
I 
playbills, posters, advertisements, they do not reflect published material about him in professional or 
major trade publications or other media. For instance, he submitted a page from the 
section of the New York Times announcing a tango show at the 
rather than an article from the publication discussing him and his 
work. In addition, the Petitioner's presented approximately 10 other articles about him but did not 
submit supporting evidence establishing that publications they appeared in , such as the Woodstock 
Times and Daily Freeman .. are considered professional or major trade publications or other major 
media.' Instead, the Petitioner's translated material made claims relating to the history and status of 
the publication. For example, a translation for an article from Cronica asserted that "[i]t is one of 
the largest circulated newspapers in the country" and "[i]n 2006 they had a daily circulation of 
58,432 copies." Although the Petitioner provided certified translations, the record does not reflect 
that the foreign language articles contained the translator's assertions. 2 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that four articles published over 10 
years ago are consistent with the. sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly 
· restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, the commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )( I )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
1 We note that the majority of his evidence did ~ot contain the required title, date, or author of the material. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
· translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
3 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" 
for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Even considering the totality of 
the other evidence and articles, the Petitioner has not shown that his press coverage is indicative of a 
level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it pertains to his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that he served as a judge at the 
in 2017 and 2018, in 2016, and 
in 2011. However, the Petitioner did not establish that his judging 
instances places him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his judging experience compares to others at the 
top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his recent judging occurrences contribute to a 
finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as conternplated by Congress or 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show, for instance, that he garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his work as a tango judge. 
As discussed relating to the artistic display of his work, the Petitioner has performed in a movie, on 
Broadway in New York, New York, and at area festivals. In addition to the performances mentioned 
above, the record indicates that he participated in musicals, such and 
Further, the Petitioner danced in a private tango show with the _ as 
well with orchestras and operas. As it is expected that a tango dancer, such as the Petitioner, would 
exhibit his artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of his 
work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this classification: While the Petitioner presented 
evidence showing a wicie range of experience from-movies, musicals, shows, and concerts, he did 
not demonstrate, for example, that his work brought wide praise from critics, drew notable crowds, 
raised attendance, or was responsible for the success cir standing of the events.3 The Petitioner's 
evidence does not distinguish his performances or work from others in his field or show that it 
reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723 at 59. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidenc:e demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
' Although the Petitioner has experience a performing artist, he did not claim, nor does the record reflect, commercial 
successes under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
4 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
With respect to his contributions to the field, the record contains numerous recommendation letters 
that praise his talents and skills as a tango dancer. For example, a salsa performer 
and instructor, stated that the Petitioner is "one of the world's great living Argentine. Tango 
performers" and "has an innate talent as a dancer."4 While the authors admire the Petitioner, they do 
not show that he has significantly influenced the field placing him in "that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, although the 
letters credit the Petitioner for working with and teaching other tango dancers, they do not establish 
that he has made contributions that have been of major significance to the greater field. For 
instance, claimed that the Petitioner's "impact of [his] own skills as a professional 
tango dancer really stands out" and "has had a profound influence on [his] personal development as 
a tango professional." Here, the Petitioner did not establish how his impact on , or any 
of his other students, is recognized by the overall field as having been majorly significant consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claimed that his roles as a cast n~ember in various productions mentioned 
above as evidence of his leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how productions and shows 
qualify as "organizations or establishments." Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish that his 
roles have been recognized by the field as being significantly important or viewed as notably 
influential. The submitted documentation, for instance, does not reflect that the Petitioner has 
somehow impacted the field through his work demonstrating attention at a level commensurate with 
those at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(11)(2). In addition, the 
Petitioner's evidence does riot distinguish his performances or work from others in his field or show 
that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
The record as a: whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is 
no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that , he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2).5 
4 Although we cite to a sample of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he intends to continue working in the·area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). 
5 
Matter of A-S-C-J-
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 statu~, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See. e.g.. Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Stipp. 2d 22 (O.O.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co .. 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the P_etitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. · 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-S-C-.J-, ID# 1982273 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
6 MATTER OF L-D-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
. Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 5, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
' 
The Petitioner .seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See' 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 1_53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available _to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive docm;nentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-·140, .Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding. that the Petitioner had· not shown that she met any of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three . 
. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. .. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue· work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
" · Matter of L-D-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships , and published material in certain media). 
-Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then· consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is col)sistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined . not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the· principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility , both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner intends to work as a financial advisor and asserts that she qualifies as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Acting Director held that the Petitioner did not meet 
any of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the criteria for awards, 
membership, judging, original contributions of major significance, scholarly articles, display, 
leading or. critical role, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (iv)-(ix). Upon 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 1 
Documentation of'the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards.for excellence in ihefield of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she meets this criterion based on awards she received from the 
and from a barangay chairman in the 
Philippines. Specifically, the award certificates from indicate that she was nominated as 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in conducting the two step analysis set ·out in Kazarian. She 
states that under the approach in Buletini v. INS. 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1234 (E.D. Mich. 1994), once three of the regulatory 
requirements are met, she has met pri;,ia facie eligibility and the burden of proof shifts to USCIS to demonstrate by· 
"specific and substantiated evidence" why the petitioner is not qualified . Here, we need not address this claim because 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
the "Top Grosser of the Month," the "Employee of the. Month," and that she received the " 
. Apprentice I" award. The record contains certificates of recognition from other corporations, 
including one from for being the 2003 GOLD awardee -financial 
advisor level, and another from , for ranking fifth in regional sales in the region 
of Manila. The Petitioner also submitted a ''Certificate of Excellence" from the Chairman of the 
Barangay locality in Philippines, stating that this certificate was 
awarded.for her continuing excellence and contributions to the barangay. 
The record contains other award certifo;:ates, some of which appear incomplete. We note that one 
award contains signature lines and an individual's title but it is not actually signed and there is no 
indication of the company in which the award was given. Doubt cast on any aspect of the 
petitioner's evidence may lead to a reevaluation of the reliability and sufficiency of the remaining 
evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter qf Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-592 (BIA 
1988). It is incumbent' upon the petitioner to resolve any inconsisteJ,?.cies in the record by 
independent objective evidence, and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies, absent 
c?mpetent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies, will not suffice '. Id. 
Upon review of the record in totality, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence regarding the criteria 
for these certificates, and thus has not demonstrated that they are awards for excellence in her field 
of endeavor. Similarly , the Petitioner has provided proof that these awards receive national or 
international recognition. Therefore, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field.for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields.· 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion on account of her· employment with 
She cites a letter from team leader, indicating that the Petitioner 
provides- "outstanding support" as a "finance experience advisor." This letter refers to the 
Petitioner's work performance but does not indicate that outstanding achievements are required for 
employment with The record does not contain evidence regarding the hiring practices of 
to demonstrate that it requires outstanding achievements as a condition of employment 
with the company as judged by "recognized national or international expe11s in their disciplines or 
fields." Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
1 
Eviden·ce qf the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec(ficafion fhr which class(fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains two letters inviting the Petitioner to judge events. invited the 
Petitioner to serve as a judge of a debate at School, and asked her to 
serve as a judge for the business development marketing campaign of . However, 
the letter from ~-- does not identify the subject of the student debate, and the record lacks 
3 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
other evidence demonstrating that this event involved judging the work of others in the same or an 
allied field. Furthermore, the regulation required evidence of participation as a judge, not simply an 
invitation to do so. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that she actually 
performed as a judge at either of these events. 
In addition, the Petitioner references her participation in the "Outstanding Yoimg Achievers" everit 
in 2002, but the record does not establish that her involvement in this event entailed judging the 
work of others. We note that the Acting Director discussed the lack of supporting documentation for 
these events in the RFE and the decision, but the Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence to 
corroborate these claims. Therefore, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly. artistic. athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[fzcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the petitioner must satisfy. The 
contributions must be original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related in 
nature. Next, the contributions must rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, 
rather than to a project or to an organization. The term "contributions of major significance" 
connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134. 
The Petitioner correctly notes that the Director failed to address her claim to this eligibility criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted a recommendation letter from who states that the Petitioner 
worked part-time for her company as an agent and finance officer. speaks highly of the 
Petitioner's dedication to her work, but this does not represent ·evidence of her original contributions 
and does not establish that any of her contributions are of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner .submits additional letters from former managers attesting to her dedication 
and positive attitude. President of the 
discusses the Petitioner's dedication to the organization, noting that "her contributions in [the 
company's] workplace over the years have been substantial" and were the main reason for the 
company 's success. In one letter, states that under her leadership running a finance 
department, productivity increased by 25 percent while maintaining high standards of quality. 
Similarly, the letters in the record from the Petitioner's colleagues at discuss her customer 
service support, her knowledge of the company's products and operating procedures, and her 
·1eadership. 
We note that these letters identify· contributions to a particular company, and the Petitioner has not 
shown that they had an impact on the greater field. Letters from colleagues that do not specifically 
identify contributions or detail how those. contributions influenced the field are insufficient. 
Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d at 1036: a.ff'd in petri 596 F.3d 1115. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion, 
4 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
Evidence of the alien's authorship o_f scholarly articles in the field. in pro_fessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . 
For the first time on appeal the Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her 
association with USA. and Philippines. She states that she has authored articles 
published in major media. 
Beyond her statement in the brief, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence related to the articles to 
establish that they are scholarly or that they were published in qualifying media. USClS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. I 756. inc. v. The US Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp .. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). Therefore, these requirements have not been met. 
Evidence o_f the display of the alien 's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner states that her webpage relating to her. products is sufficient to satisfy this 
criterion, but the record does not contain evidence supporting this assertion. She has not submitted a 
copy of this webpage and has not shown that this was displayed at an artistic exhibition.2 Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1:formed in a leading or critical role .fiJr organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader.3 If a critical 
role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may 
be considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It 
is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines 
whether'the role is or was critical.4 · · 
The record contains a letter from who identifies herself as the head financial advisor of 
, indicating that the Petitioner "assumed a leadership role in finance 
' The Pe1;1;onec dies 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(4) whkh stat~s thaj comparable ev;denc< may be subm;tted to establ;sh 
eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iHx) do 7ot readily apply to her occupation. This regulation 
requires that a petitioner demonstrate why a criterion is not readily applicable to his or her occupation and how the 
submitted evidence is comparable to that criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Ewdumion <il 
Evidence Suhmirted wilh Certain Form 1-140 Pe1itions: Revisions 10 !he Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (A FMi Chapter 
22.2, AF/\,/ Update ADI /-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-
140-evidence-pm-6002-005-l.pdf. Here, the Petitioner has not discussed why this criterion does not readily apply to her 
occupation and does not submit evidence that is comparable to this criterion . 
3.See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1. Evahiutio11 c!fEvidenc:e S11b111i11ed with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisi<ins to the Adjudicatm< ~ Field Aiunua/ (AFA.fJ Chap1er 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 10 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https :/ /www.useis.gov Is ites/defau lt/fi les/U SC I S/Laws/Memoranda /i-I 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1 . pdf. 
4 Id. . 
5 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
meetings, inspiring and motivating other employees and representatives of [the] organization." This 
letter does not specify the details of what leadership position the Petitioner held or how her work had 
a significant impact on the organization's activities. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence establishing that _______ has a distinguished reputation. 
The record also contains a letter from the head of the 
Philippines, stating that the Petitioner served as a financial advisor in her office. attests 
to the Petitioner's productivity, positive attitude, organizational skills, and diligence in the 
organization, but this does not demonstrate that she had a leading or critical role. The record does 
not contain evidence indicating she performed a leadership role in or otherwise performed 
activities that were critical t,o the success of the organization. The Acting Director noted that the 
Petitioner had not shown that she performed a leading or critical role for or 
and had not submitted evidence establishing that these)organizations have a distinguished 
reputation. The Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence about the group or her role in 
the organization on appeal. Therefore, the record does not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or · other signfficantly high 
remuneration.for services, in relation to o~hers in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). · 
The record contains a letter from manager at attesting to the Petitioner's 
salary, as a brand specialist, but this letter does not contain specific details of her compensation, 
using the phrase "more or less" and an approximation of amounts received in monthly incentives. 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation from payscale.com, providing details of salaries for 
finance and administrationmanagers in the However, she has not established that the salaries 
of finance and administration managers relate to her work as a brand specialist. Due to the lack of 
specific details regarding the Petitioner's salary, and without additional corroborating evidence, she 
has not established that she has had a high salary in relation to others in the field to meet this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian; 596 F.3d at 1119.:20. Nevertheless, w:e advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggreg<;1te, concluding thatit does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has.established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. ; 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
J. 
Cite as Matter ofL-D-C-, ID# 1956574 (AAO Feb. 5, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF 1-K­
' DATE: FEB. 7, 2019 
Ap PEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140,.IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
i 
The Petition.er, an architect, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Se:e Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8U.S.C.§11'53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
! ' 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied ti1e petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
Se~ 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). -- . 
Ori appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence, claiming that he meets four of the ten criteria 
un.rer 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
i 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 (ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work, in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
• (iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Th~ term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small per~entage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204,5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter of 1-K-
§/204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a i:najor, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
111ust provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
I 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
pbrcentage at the very top of the field of ende~vor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
f4lfilling the required number of criteria; considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
s~e also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
pfinciple that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context .of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to, be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
According to his January 2017 statement, the Petitioner seeks to enter the United States to work as 
ari architect and to "reach [his] maximum as an artist." He claims extraordinary ability in the field of 
"architecture and design," and offers evidence showing that he studied architecture and design in his 
native country, Georgia, and in Portugal. In 2017, while in the United States, he worked as a 
dJsigner and architect for , a design studio in· New York. 
The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). · As such, he must provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirements. While he asserts on appeal that he meets the following four 
criteria, the record does not support this assertion. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
award5for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner offers documentation confirming his receipt of the· following: 
(1) A third prize "for the best architectural project of 
Georgia," issued by 
2 New Head Office in 
.
.Matter of 1-K-
(2) A "First Pize [sic]" for" 
of Georgia; and 
(3) A second place recognition m the 
issued by " issued by the 
as relating to 
m 
While the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the above accol~des are "held on international level," he 
has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. Even assuming that the contenders for the prizes came 
from different parts of the world, to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence that 
the prizes are recognized in the field on a national or international level. Although the record 
contains some information about the award issuing entities, it lacks sufficient evidence confirming 
the awards that the Petitioner received enjoy national or international· recognition for excellence in 
the field of architecture and design. For example, he has not presented materials showing that 
publications or news outlets with a national or international audience reported on the awards or their 
recipients, or other documentation confirming that these honors are accepted in the fieid as national 
or international recognition for excellence. The Petitioner has therefore not met this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. relating to the alien ·s work in the fieldfor which class[ficat ion is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date. and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because his designs and brief descriptions of the 
designs were posted on Online printouts from the website indicate that it is a 
digital architecture and design magazine, has "4 million readers and 450,000 newsletter subscribers," 
ai;id, was named one of the top 100 design influencers in the world by magazine. Even if this 
publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
; 
Specially, the record reveals that the "has received [the Petitioner's projects] from 
our DIY submissions feature, where we welcome our readers to submit their own work for 
publication." The Petitioner has not shown that such self-promotional submissions constitute ' "[p ]ublished material about [him] ... relating to [his] work in the field," as required by the criterion. 
Moreover, he has not provided information relating to the author(s) of the brief descriptions of his 
designs posted on as required under the regulation. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . 
Tre record includes a number of project spec books from the design studio listing the 
P~titioner as the designer or architect. The evidence confirms that builders have completed some of 
tqese projects. T_he project spec books are materials the studio cre_ated for its clients, offering 
3 
.
Matter of I-K-
recommendations on the building and design of the projects. The Petitioner has nof demonstrated 
that his work in the project spec books was intended for anyone other than the clients, or that the I • s~aring of these materials between the studio and its customers qualifies as "the display of [his] work 
. : . at artistic exhibitions or showcases," as required under the regulation. 
Similarly, the· Petitioner has not established that a social media posting meets this criterion: 
Specifically, he claims that he satisfies this criterton because and 
reposted his photographs on their Instagram accounts. He, however, has not pointed to 
aµy legal authority, such as case law or regulatory or statutory language, supporting the position that 
businesses' social media accounts constitute "artistic exhibitions or showcases." 
The Petitioner also asserts the buildings that have been completed based on his designs satisfy this 
criterion. While these projects, located on the streets of New York City, confirm his work as an 
architect and designer, they are not displays at artistic exhibitions or showcases. · Examples of 
qpalifying display_s include those that are held at galleries, museums , or other artistic venues. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
. . 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high remuneration 
for services. in relation to others in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
,, 
The Petitioner's tax documents show that in 2017, he earned $39,150 in "wages, salaries, tips" and 
"business income." He has not explained if his entire earnings derived from his work as a designer 
and architect. Assuming such to be the case, the record, which does not include comparative 
compensation data in the field, is insufficient to show that he "has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field," as required by the 
regulation. 
dn appeal, the Petitioner explains that his earnings have .been affected because he is not a permanent 
resident in the United States. This criterion requires evidence of his "high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration," without taking into consideration of his immigration status. While 
it,might be true that the Petitioner's income has been impacting by a number of factors, it remains 
t~at he has not established his salary or remuneration · is qualifying under the regulation. He has 
therefore not satisfied this criterion. i 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Based on the evidence in the record, including reference letters and other documentation not 
specifically_ discussed in this decision, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted the required 
initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten 
cliteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 f.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of the record in its entirety, we 
conclude that it does n_ot support a finding that he has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for this classification. · 
4 
Matter of 1-K-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price; 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his academic and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or 
internationa! acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-,723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 
. 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the. Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural 'Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of 1-K-, ID# 2000665 (AAO Feb. 7, 2019) 
i 
) U.S. Citizeriship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-Z-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of materials 
science. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(])(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A).· This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentatioi:i. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets a third criterion that relates to original contributions 
of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to. continue work in the area of 
. extraordinary ability, and . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in ''that small·percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."r 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of F-Z-
requirements. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. ·see Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the· totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
, to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record, including the Petitioner's resume, shows that he received his Ph.D. degree in materials 
science in 2013, and has been working as a postdoctoral research associate ·at the 
since 2014. According to his 2018 statement, his research area relates to "the development of 
high capacity energy storage devices, including lithium ion battery, sodium ion battery and lithium­
rt sulfur battery." 
, 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The 
record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented documentation from 
professional publications, confirming that he 
served as their reviewer and reviewed manuscripts in 2016 and 2017. In addition, the record shows 
that he has authored scholarly articles that are published in professional journals, including 
that appeared in Energy & Environmental Science, and 
that appeared in ACS Nano. Although the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), he has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements of meeting at 
least three criteria. 1 · . 
1 Th~ Petitioner has not alleged, and ·the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationally 
· recognized award. See 8 C.F. R: § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 CTR.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satis.fy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
.
Matter of F-Z-
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets a third· criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
w~ich requires him to present "[ e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original, con'tributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field of materials science. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The-record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence,2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, he claims that the number of citations his scholarly articles have garnered and the 
reference letters discussing his research sufficiently establish that he meets this criterion. We 
d. . j 1sagree. 
According to his January 2018 statement, the Petitioner has "published 14 peer-reviewed arti.9les, 5 
,of them as the first author, in the leading journals in [the] field, including 1 article in Advanced 
Materials [ and] 1 article in ACS Nano." Scientists from different parts of the world have referenced 
his work. Printouts from scholar.google.com, including those dated May 2018, show that his most 
cited work, published in 2013, has garnered approximately 500 citations, while his other articles, 
published between 2012 and 2017, have received between a few hundreds to a handful of citations. 
Materials from Clarivate Analytics indicate that the citation rate of some of his articles is 
comparatively high in the field of materials science. Citation to one's work alone, however, is 
insufficient to confirm contributions of major significance in the field. Rather, we must consider 
whether the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or ent1)es (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite 
[his] work as authoritative in the field." USCIS Policy. Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Such considerations may confirm that his research meets the original contributions of major 
significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). · 
The Petitioner has presented incomplete copies of articles that have cited to his work. These 
_ documents do not verify that his articles have been cited as authoritative in the field or have 
influenced the field in a significant way. Most of the articles briefly reference his work, among 
many other studies, and_ do not include an in-depth discussion on his research. For example, the 
incomplete copies . of the 2016 Advanced Materials · article 
and the 2016Advanced Functional Materials article 
• 2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative,.and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is ''more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petition.(' Re,iisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, A FM Update AD I l-14 4 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda, 
3 
.
Matter of F-Z-
show that each article cites the Petitioner's 2013 research once, in the respective introductory 
paragraph that includes approximately 25 citations to other studies. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that brief references to his work confirm that it constitutes contributions of major 
significance. 
Although some m1icles include more information about the Petitioner's work, they do not establish 
that his research has been widely accepted and implemented throughout the field or has otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Rather, these articles acknowledge that his studies 
have added to the general pool of knowledge , which, without evidence of significant impact or 
influence in the field, is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
The reference letters in the record similarly are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).3 These 
letters discuss in detail the nature of the Petitioner 's studies, and claim that his work has benefited 
the field. For example, a professor at of Science and 
Technology in China, provides that the Petitioner 's research "has empowered many other sciences 
[sic] to construct their own experiments and to measure the merit of their findings." a 
professor at the states that the Petitioner's work "has proven very valuable 
for facilitating advancements in [the] field" of materials science. a professor at the 
indicates that the Petitioner '.'has opened new avenues for further 
innovations in the development of batteries and battery components." a professor at 
notes that the Petitioner "has introduced new methods, chemical processes , 
and elements that greatly improve battery function. " . the editor-in-chief of the 
maintains that the Petitioner's "achievements to date include developing 
-a facile, tunable, and cost-effective method of synthesizing high-capacity anode materials." 
These letters, while including information about the Petitioner's research, are insufficient to confirm 
that its impact or influence in the field has risen to the level of "major significance." See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] 
contributions in the fiel_d" · were insufficient to meet this _ criterion). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his work -which may have led to incremental improvements in knowledge and 
understanding in the field, as such are expected in any original research -qualities as ·contributions 
of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 
("Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The above and other letters not specifically discussed, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, 
however, insufficient to confirm widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the 
field of materials science has regarded his research as authoritative. See Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
·' While not eve;y letter in the record is discussed , all were considered in reaching our conclusion. 
4 
Matter of F-Z-
134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not 
demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do 
not sufficiently explain how an ,individual's contributions have alr~ady influenced the field 
significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036·. 
In his January 2018 statement, the Petitioner indicates that he has "published additio~al articles in 
. ·major conference proceedings" and "authored a book chapter." These activities, as well as the 
publication of his articles, some of them in reputable journals, illustrate that. he has disseminated his 
work in the field.. The Petitioner, however; has not submitted sufficient evidence of the impact or 
influence that his work has·had in the field after dissemination. As such, he has not shown that these 
undertakings satisfy this criterion: · Publications and presentations are not sufficient under this 
criterion absent evidenc~ that they were of "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Based ori the evidence in the 
r~cord·,. the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field of materials science. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial. evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ·of the ten criteria. As a· result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The· Petitioner seeks a highly· restrictive visa classification; intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than fQr individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
~ere, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as· contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
.Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). . . 
J 
. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as · an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
, 
Cite as Matter of F-Z-, ID# 2034743 (AAO Feb. 7, 2019) .. MATTER OFD-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals_ Office 
DATE: FEB. 13,2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITIO~ FOR ALIEN WORKER 
) ·/ 
The Petitioner, a professional basketball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
· ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas av~ilable to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability throug'1 sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140; Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that ~he Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief arguing that she satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria and qualifie_s as an athlete of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. _ 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized m the· field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially penefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers.only to ·those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of ~ndeavor.'' 8 C'.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of D-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
international~y recognized award). If; that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as ·awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that ·the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner ._meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality,'' as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
\ 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must -satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the 
membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and the record supports that finding~ For 
example, the evidence indicates that she competed as a member of the women's basketball 
team at the 2008 m 1 · 
In addition, we find that the Petitioner meets the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the 
leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Specifically, the Petitioner was a 
starting player on a women's professional team that won national 
basketball championships in 2013 and 2016. She was also a starting player for the national 
women's team that earned a bronze medal at the in 2011. The Petitioner's 
supporting evidence includes media coverage demonstrating the national . and international 
recognition of her championship awards. Furthermore , the evidence shows that the Petitioner has 
· 1 The record shows that only twelve national basketball teams qualify to compete in the 
competitive process. 
2 through an arduous 
.
·. Matter of D-S-
performed in a critical role for distinguished organizations such as the women's team that 
earned an berth and a professional 
women's team.2 Accordingly, the record demonstrates that she has satisfied at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
I 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner 's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficidnt to demonstrate that she. has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
We evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has 
sustained national or intematio·nal acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, making her one of the small percentage who have risen to the 
very .top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204:5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, 'the Petitioner has shown his 
eligibility for this classification . 
The Petitioner has competed for in Tennessee3, national and teams, 
and various professional teams in the top women's division in Europe4 as a critical member of their 
basketball teams. While competing for these teams, she won nationally recognized competitions 
such as and national basketball championships (2013 and 2016), as 
well as being selected as Most Valuable Player of the Finals of the In addition, her 
bronze medal at the (20 l 1) further demonstrates international recognition . in 
her sport. Regarding the Petitioner 's performance at the sports coverage 
from states that she received "the highest points award with 13 l points" (averaging 
"16.375 points per.;game") and "made the continent Top-5 list." 
Furthermore, at the 2008 in the Petitioner represented and had the 
second most rebounds per game among all players from the twelve qu,,alifying teams,5 
has also honored her as the 
(2011). The record includes coverage of the Petitioner's basketball accomplishments dating from ' . the late 2000s until the Form I-140 was filed in 2016 in a variety of media outlets including 
Eurobasket.com , Afrobasketcom , ESPN.com, FIBA.com 6, Basketfeminin.com , and · L 'Avenir (a 
2 The record includes media coverage and basketball statistics showing that the Petitioner played a key role for the 
national team and and that these teams had a distinguished reputation. "' 
3 While playing for her team won the 
in 2006. 
4 The evidence shows that the Petitioner has played under contract for professional basketball teams in 
5 For example, top rebounder 
ranked fifth in rebounds per game averaging 8.4, while the Petitioner ranked second averaging 10.0 per game. 
The Petitioner 's high statistical ranking relative to other elevates her to the very top of her sport at the 
international level. 
· 6 is the official website of the -----------~ the gover.ning body for the sport of 
3 
Matter of D-S~ 
Belgian newspaper). This evidence sets the Petitioner apart through a '1career of acclaimed work in 
the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
In summary, the-Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a professional basketball 
player. The totality of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is 
consistent with a finding that she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor 
and that she has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 956 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international 
acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, 
the Petitioner has shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise and that she 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofD-S-, ID# 2025090 (AAO Feb. 13, 2019) 
\ 
basketball worldwide. 
4 MATTER OF H-O-H-G- INC Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 15, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECfSION 
PETITION: FORM I-140A, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a gymnastics school, seeks to 'classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) iection 
203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). This first preference classification .makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary had satisfied only one of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the 
ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of . 
extraordinary ability, and 
· (iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. · · 
.
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does ·not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least thfee of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ ·204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. ·§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final. merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC/S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part r~view-where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
· Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&NDec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary previously competed as a gymnast until 2015. In 2015, he also served as the 
assistant coach for Since then, he has served as a 
coach for the Petitioner as well as a volunteer coach for the men's 
gymnastics team.2 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Beneficiary met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria: 
On appeal, the Petitioner mainfains that the Beneficiary satisfies five of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). _ 
\ 
1 The record also refers to this team as the 
2 The record demonstrates that_the Beneficiary was granted 0-1 status and issued a visa in November 2016. 
2 
.
Matter of H-O~H-G- Inc 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's receipt of multiple awards at gymnastics competitions, 
but found that the record did not demonstrate that the awards are nationally ,or internationally 
recognized. Specifically, he stated that, as these awards were "limited to members of that 
association and participants of that competition ... such evidence has no probative value for meetings 
this criterion." · 
As discussed by the Director, the record contains evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary 
received 1st place as a member of the team representing Japan at the 201.0 , 3rd place all-
around at the in 2012, 2nd place, horizontal bar, at the 2013 
, 3rd place overall at the 2013 and 1st place, 
horizontal · bar, at the 2014 Further, although not mentioned by the 
Director, the record also shows that, among other awards, the Beneficiary was a member of the 
Japanese team receiving 2nd place at the in 2010. We 
find the record sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has won awards that are nationallf or 
internationally recognized for excellence in gymnastics. Accordingly, we disagree with the• 
Director's decision and find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for which classffication is 
sought, ·which require outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national 9r international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary's membership in an 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which the classification is sought.3 The Director stated that 
the Petitioner had provided evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on teams and in the 
However, he found that the record lacked 
evidence establishing that membership in these associations required outstanding achievements of 
their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the. Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's membership on the 
and the meet the regulatory requirement for this criterion. The record indicates that the 
Beneficiary participated in teams representing Japan at various events and it includes a 2012 
certificate from the _____________ recognizing him as a national athlete. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 . l ,' Evalualiun (!/ Evidence S11b111i11ed with Ceriain Form 1-140 
Petilions ; Revisions 10 !he Adjudica/or·s Field Manual (AFM) Chap/er 22.2, AFM Update ADI /-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www,uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual .html. 
3 
.
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
However, the Petitioner has not provided supporting documentation regarding the 
its membership selection process and requirements, or the Beneficiary's membership on this 
team. We noJe, for instance, that the submitted support letters, including letters from the Chairman · 
and the Secretary General of the reference his membership 
on "the Japanese team;' that won second prize in Netherlands in 20 l 0, but they do not 
identify this team or discuss its membership process or requirements. · The Petitioner argues that the 
Director "ignored the selectivity of both the which is limited to the top 16 
gymnasts in Japan, and the which is limited to eleven gymnasts. " (Emphasis in 
original). However , the record lacks corroborative evidence demonstrating these limitations , or 
other materials demonstrating the process by which ~he Beneficiary was selected to be a member of 
these teams. 
In its appeal brief, the Petitioner cites to In re Petitioner [ldent(fj;in g Information Redacted by 
Agency}, No. EAC-00-139-52808 , 2003 WL 23194168 (DHS) (AAO Sept. 29, 2003), a non­
precedent Administrative Appeals Office decision finding in which we found that membership on an 
team met the association criterion "because such membership is the result of multi-level 
national competition , supervised by national experts." The Petitioner has not sufficiently 
documented the membership processes for the Japanese teams on which he competed or the 
to demonstrate their similarity to the team discussed in the cited case. Furthermore , this 
decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to 
the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the 
record of proceedings , the issues considered , and applicable law and policy. 
The Petitioner further argues that in another non-precedent decision, Matter ofC-K-, ID.#1223184 
(AAO Apr. 27, 2018), we found that "the petitioner's qualification for his c·ountry's national water 
ski team satisfied the criterion for membership. " In that decision, we noted that "the Petitioner · 
provided additional evidence of the requirements to be selected for [his co.untry's] national water ski 
team." We found "[t]he Petitioner [had] submitted sufficient evidence demonstrating that [his 
country's] national water ski team requires outstanding achievements by its members as a 
prerequisite for joining the team." In the instant case, the Petitioner submits a certificate , referenced 
above, showing that the Beneficiary was recognized as a riational athlete in 2012, as well as 
certificates from the showing him eligible for training in 2012 
and 2007. However , the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate the 
requirements for these certifications included outstanding ~chievements, as was done in the 
referenced decision. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director "inexplicable ignored" Beneficiary's selection 
as a __ by the in 2010. However , the Petitioner does not provide 
supporting evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements , as judged by recognized national 
or international experts, are required for selection as a . For the reasons 
discussed above, . the · Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiar y meets the regulatory 
requirement for this criterion. 
4 
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
Published material about. the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title. date. and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R: 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient eviden~e to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. In the appellate brief, 
the Petitjoner lists .14 ·articles which it asserts establish that the Beneficiary's eligibility for this 
criterion. The record, however, does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner provided published material about the Beneficiary in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which included the title, date, and author.4 Eight of these 14 
articles are in the Japanese language with uncertified English translations. Any document in a 
foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation.· 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent .to translate from the foreign language into English .. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of these 
documents, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus 
supports the Petitioner's claims. In addition, we note that the Petitioner indicates these articles were 
published in Mainichi Shim bun, and Osaka Nichinichi Shim bun, but that the record lacks 
documentation corroborating its assertions that these publications are major media. 
I 
Five of the remaining six English language articles provide coverage of gymnastics competitions 
where the Petitioner is only briefly mentioned or listed as a competitor. Articles that are not about a 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See. e.g .. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin. 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at ; 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding· that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor. The sixth article, published in International Gymnast, is about the Beneficiary 
and discusses an injury he sustained during training, however the record lacks sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the major status of this publication. In support of its assertion that International 
Gymnast qualifies as major media, the Petitioner quotes the publication's press kit stating that the 
publication "is the most widely read gymnastics magazine ii1 the world and is received in more than 
50 countries." The Petitioner also states that "pass-along readership is estimated 40,000-50,000, 
with digital circulation of 10,000 hits daily." However, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos. No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine 
as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not met its burden in demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary meets the requiremen~s of this criterion. We will withdraw the Director's finding on this 
criterion. · 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, an. 
5 I . 
.
Malter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
Evidence · of the alien's original scientific , scholarly, artistic. athletic_. · or business-relat ed 
co_ntributions of major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner ma'.y show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiar y's "unique ability to execute a 
sequence of difficult release moves on the horizontal bar" qualifies him for this criterion. The 
Petitioner notes that the record includes a letter written by an champio1:1, 
stating that the Beneficiary "is the first and only gymnast who 
· on high bar."5 also notes that the Beneficiary's ability is "truly 
astounding and it is a big feat in men's gymnastics ." Letters from the Chairman and from the 
Secretary General of the respectively , also state that the 
Beneficiary "is the only person in the world who can perform high difficulty combination series .... "6 
These letters do not demonstrate how the Beneficiar y's performance of this skill has been a 
contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that sp~cifically articulate how the alien's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probati~e evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Beneficiary meets this criterion because of his "general 
recognition as a world-renowned gymnast and coach." The record contains several letters attesting 
to his status in the field.8 For example, a letter from says, "[The Beneficiar y] was 
regarded as one of the best gymnasts in the world in recent years, competing in numerous 
for However , these letters do not demonstrate how this general 
recognition constitutes a major original ·contribution to the field of gymnastics. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that• the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1:formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishment s that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiar y qualifies for this criterion based on his role in leading 
the Japanese teams to second place finishes at the 2012 and the 20 IO 
It fmiher argues that the Beneficiary played "a critical and leading 
5 We note that the Petitioner also provided photographs of the Beneficiary performing this skill. 
6· Elsewhere in the record, writes that he is now "able to perform [the Beneficiar y]'s high bar release 
combination skills." 
7 USClS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
8 Although we discuss only one letter, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
.
) Matter of H-0-H-G- Inc 
role in the elite and that he "has continued to play a critical and leading role since his 
retireme~t from competition in 2015." As it relates to a leading role, the evidence inust establish that 
a petitioner is or was a. leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
role is or was, in fact, leading.9 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a 
petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.10 
The Petitioner asserts that the' Beneficiary's performance at the 2010 
contributed significantly 10· the Japanese team's silver medal there, noting that he 
"earned the second-highest score for · and the highest of 
any gymnast on any team on the " The record contains evidence corroborating this 
assertion. · This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary's athletic performance 
played a critical role in the team's success at ~he 2010 
Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g.. Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F: Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office ~djudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and.a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
rtot bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination -referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support-a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
91d: at 10. 
10 Id. 
7 
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc I 
. 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc, ID# 2012666 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
·· Administrative Appeals Office 
DA TE: FEB. 15, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WOR~ER 
The Petitioner, an artisan, photographer and fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ·ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achieveIJ1ents have _been recognized in their field thro~gh extensi~e documentation. · 
The Director of the Nebraska. Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
· establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a one-time achievement 1(a major, internationally 
· recognized award) or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner appealed 
the matter to_ us, and we dismissed her appeal. 
· On ·motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence _and asserts that she meets two criteria in 
addition to the two criteria we found that she meets in-our previous decision .. 
Upon review, we will deny the mption. 
I. LAW. 
A motion to reopen is based bn documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion 
to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In her decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the requisite three ·criteria, 
regarding display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, we determined that 
she also met the criterion relating to playing a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished· reputation, but that ·she fell short of establishing several others. The Petitioner now 
submits a motion to reopen with new eviaence, and claims to meet the criteria for published material 
·about her in.professional or major trade publications or otlier major media, and for a high salary or 
other significaQtly 1.high remuneration. As the evidence meets the requirements for a-motion to 
reopen, we will analyze it under the appropriate criteria below. 
.
Matter of O-S-
A. Published Material About the Alien in Professional or Major Trade Publications or Other Major 
Media 
With her motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of an article which appeared in the 2018 
edition of Vogue UA, the Ukrainian edition of the popular fashion magazine. The one-page article is 
accompanied by pictures of the Petitioner and her work; and discusses a display of her w_ork in 
in December 2017. However , we note that both the display of her work and publication of 
the article occurred well after this petition was filed on August 7, 2017. Eligibility for an 
immigration benefit must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l ), (12); Matter 
of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved 'at a future 
date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 l&N Dec. 
169,175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter <?fBardouille. 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), 
further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing 
of a petition." Id. at 176. Accordingly , this evidence does not establish the Petitioner's qualification 
under this criterion. 
The Petitioner also resubmits two articles which were published in the magazine domus design in 
2006 and 2007. Both articles feature descriptions and photographs of the interior of 
apartments, including pictures that the Petitioner asserts are her creations. She is credited as one of 
two designers in the 2006 article, and for "photographs in the interior" in the 2007 
article. The text of the 2006 article repeats the mention of the Petitioner as a designer of the 
apartment, but the text of the . 2007 article is not translated from Ukrainian to English. The 
2006 article is not about the Petitioner , but is a description of the apartment, and the subject 
of the 2007 article cannot be discerned without translations. In addition, the Petitioner submits 
new evidence relating to the publication in support of her assertion that it should be considered as 
major media. A "Website Analysis Overview Report" on the domusweb.it website provides figures 
on the number of visitors, but it is not apparent that these figures relate to the Ukrainian edition of 
the magazine in which the submitted articles appear. Also submitted Qn motion is an advertising 
guide to the magazine which indicates that it has a circulation of I 0,000 copies distributed 
throughout Ukraine. However, these claims are not supported by evidence from independent 
sources,· nor has comparative evidence been submitted to establish that the circulation of the 
Ukrainian edition of domus design sufficiently establishes that it is major media .. 
In our previous decision, we determined that while some television broadcasts were about the 
Petitioner and her work as an ·artist, she had not submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
these broadcasts appeared in major media. On motion, the Petitioner resubmits evidence of a short 
program covering her exhibition in in 2017, as well as new evidence regarding UA TV, 
the government-run satellite television company which aired the program .. A "Website Analysis 
Overview Report" about the company's website indicates that it is ranked number 4,562 in Ukraine, 
. with 284,447 monthly visits, nearly all from visitors within Ukraine. Without further information 
regarding the size of UA TV's viewership or other evidence . of its status as a major media outlet, this 
evidence is insufficient to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
2 
Matter of 0-S-
B. Evidence That the Alien has Commanded a High Salary or Other Significantly High 
Remuneration for Services, in Relation to Others in the Field 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of a 201 7 IRS Form 1099 from a client for whom she 
~ompleted an interior design project, as well as a copy of the design proposal. The Form · 1099 
indicates that she received $9,800 from this client. However, the Petitioner has not .submitted 
evidence of how her remuneration compares to that of other artists in her field·. Therefore, she has 
not established that it is significantly high. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion, and find that it does not 
meet the claimed evidentiary criteria or establish her eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied: 
Cite as Matter of 0-S-, ID# 2000787 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-E-S-L-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 15, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Latin reggae musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must m~et at least three: · · 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he ·meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's eritry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individu.als in "that small percel}tage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation . . 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
at 8 C.F.R. · § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification_'s initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as aw;rds, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not· 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a· petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
materiat' provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is ·among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is cOnsistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, whose professional name 1s or 
is a Latin reggae musician who was a 
percussionist for the Venezuelan reggae band 
released the albums 
new band. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria (2010), After 
, and released the album founding member, lead singer, composer and 
from 1 998 unti I it disbanded in 2012.1 
(2002), (2007), and 
disbanded the Petitioner formed a 
(2016). 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least· three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). · The Director held 'that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional . criteria, awards, membership in associations, 
significant contributions, display, critical or leading role, and commercial success at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (vii), (viii) and (x); respectively, and that he is among the small p~rcentage 
1 There is some inconsistency in the record as to when disbanded. The Petitioner's resume indicates that 
thi.s'event occurred in 20 IO while on appeal the Petitioner asserts it was in 2012. 
2 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
at the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, we find _that the record establishes he meets three 
criteria to warrant a final merits detem1ination .. 
Specifically, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for published material 
and judging. The record contains several published articles that are about the Petitioner, relating to 
his performances with, and the circulation statistics provided demonstrate that the 
publications qualify as major media, as required under the regulation.2 In addition, the documentary 
evidence indicates that he served as a judge for the 2012 awards and as a 
member of the jury for the 2013 awards. We also find that the Petitioner,has 
satisfied the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The evidence submitted of the 
Petitioner's performance before audiences _at concerts and other music events fulfills this criterion. 
This demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
As the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence, including the documentation relating to other criteria he has claimed, in the context of the 
final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the record 
demonstrates, by a preponderance of .the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor; and that his 
achievements· have. been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
With respect to awards, within its response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner included documentation that he received the 201 l award as Singer with the 
Most Impact of the Year with a Great International Projection.-' He submitted a letter dated 2011 
from _____ president of who provides general 
2 For example, reviews and articles about the Beneficiary and his work with appear to have been 
published in Rolling Stone magazine and in the Venezuelan publication El Naciona/. Although not addressed by the 
Director, we note that the Petitioner submitted translations ol'several other li:neign-language articles that cki not comply 
with the regulation, as they clearly omit sentences or passages from the foreign language document. See 8 C.F.R, § 
103.2(b)(3) . Accordingly , these translations have significantly diminished probative value. Other articles submitted do 
not meet the plain language r'equirements of the published material criterion because they do not include the date and 
author of the material. 
3 The record also contains evidence that he received the 2017 after the date when _the petition was 
filed on October 6, 2016. The Petitioner must establish that all eiigibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from 'the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. * I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). Furthermore, the 
record does not include sufficient evidence to _demonstrate that this award is recognized at a level _consistent with 
national or international acclaim. · 
3 
.
,/, 
Matter of L-E-S-L-
information about the foundation, and asserts that the award is "the only award that is 
certified in the country," and that it enjoys "the Most Continuous Credibility at a Regional, National, 
and International level." He also indicates that the award is a local event, given in 
based upon "the verdict from the people of according to the results from the polls 
taken in different communicatio~ media, the Mayor's office ... walking polls, and other means 
of information." On appeal, the Petitioner provides an additional letter from dated 
2018, indica~ing that the Petitioner was the only artist in the '" cultural reggae' genre" to receive the 
award for Singer with the Most Impact of the Year with a Great International Projection.4 He further 
explains that the organization does not have established award categories, and "[t]he number of 
awards changes every year depend.ing on how the market develops." While the Petitioner's award 
. shows that he was recognized by the the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence of the national or international recognition of his such as national or 
widespread local coverage of his award in arts, ente11ainment, or general media, shO\ying that the 
award was recognized beyond the presenting organization. Tl1e Petitioner, therefore, has not shown 
that his receipt of the award in 2011 is indicative of the required national or 
international acclaim in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations, he contends that his membership in the 
demoi1strates his "sustained national acclaim." However, as he acknowledges 
on appeal, the record indicates his membership in this organization began on March 2 7, 2018, after 
the date the petition was filed on October 6, 2016. As stated previously, the Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the 
filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). Thus, the Petitioner cannot 
establish that he possessed the required acclaim at the time of filing with membership in an 
organization that began after that date. Nor has the Petitioner sufficiently documented the 
· significance or prestige of his memb~rship to demonstrate that it 
contributes to a finding of sustained national or international .acclaim continuing through 
adjudication. 
For published material, the record contains a favorable review of 2002 debut album 
!hat appears to have been published in a foreign language edition of Rolling 
Stone. An additional article in El Nacional announces that album's release, mentions the 
participation of notable reggae artists and in the recording, and notes 
the band's growing popularity in South America and Jamaica. Other articles"'discuss the success of 
between 2003 and 2010, including the positive response to the band's 
While indicative of recognition during this period, those 
materials do 'not demonstrate that the Petitioner, as an . individual, has enjoyed national or 
international acclaim performing with his ·new .band between 2012 and October 2016, 
when he filed the instant petition. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that although 
disbanded in 2012, he "continued to shine and be recognized as a Latin Reggae Artist' in his own 
4 The materials accompanying letter indicate the organization changed its name in 2016 to 
4 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
right." In support of t_his contention he cites to his performance in concerts between 2013 and 2015 
at "some of most famous venues such as ... and ' and his release of 
the CD . However, the record does not show that the level of 
success the Petitioner has had from 2012 onward has brought him national or international acclaim 
in his field. Therefore, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim after his participation in 
With respect to judging, the two certificates submitted pertain to the Petitioner's judging experiences 
for the 2012 awards, and as a member of the jury for the 2013 
A'.s previously discussed, the above-mentioned letter from indicates 
that the award that the Petitioner judged was a local event, given in based 
upon "the verdict from the people of according to the results from the polls taken in different 
communication media, the Mayor's office ... walking polls, and other means of information." 
A press release describes the awards as an annual, two-day Venezuelan music 
festival that awards the "top acts" from that year's festivals, which are monthly, 
regional music festivals "in the main squares of Venezuela." On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
press releases advertising upcoming events in 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2016, 
published on the websites www.theelitechannel.blogspot.com, www.lapatilla.com, and 
www.lamegaestacion.com www.el~nacional.com. Without supporting evidence showing, for 
instance, the level of national or international prestige associated with these competitions, we cannot 
conclude that_ serving as a judge for them is commensurate with sustained "national or international 
acclaim" at the very top of the field. Moreover, we note that the Petitioner has submitted evidence 
of his participation as a judge for only two competitions, in 2012 and 2013 respectively. The statute and 
regulations, however, require "extensive documentation," and for the petitioner to demonstrate that his 
national or international acclaim has been sustained. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A)(i), and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The documentation submitted for 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), considered as part of the record as a whole, is not extensive or commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
On appeal, for the first time, the Petitioner claims that he satisfies the contributions criterion, based 
on letters of recommendation from his former band members and colleagues in the field. First, he 
indicates this evidence demonstrates acclaim as the first ' in 
Venezuela." __ an Argentine reggae musician self-described as the "founder of cultural 
· reggae in all of Latin America," describes the Petitioner as "the founder of m 
Venezuela." of the , calls 
Venezuela's" a reggae musician , indicates that 
while "there were important reggae-bands in Latin America before . . . .. is the first 
Next, the Petitioner asserts the letters demonstrate impact and influence, especially. 
in being.the first reggae band __ , bringing "this hallmark of reggae music to 
Venezuela ."' · a Jamaican-Canadian reggae musician , and a 
Venezuelan r~ggae musician , credit the_ band with contributing to the popularity of reggae music in 
I 
5 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
Venezuela. Letters form a former member of 
claim that the band's ===== "defined the history of reggae in the 
country." ===== -===- .· another former member of asserts 
that the song ' from ___ "was the most played song on the radio 
at the time." In addition, an undated letter from with the Venezuelan radio station 
indicates that the theme composed by [the Petitioner] and 
.. is the Venezuelan reggae song with the most rotation in our radio Circuit." However, the 
Petitioner has not established how the radio play of the song equates to his 
sustained national or international acclaim .. For example, the record does not include sufficient 
evidence to corroborate the statements regarding the past radio play of the song, nor does it 
demonstrate how much current radio play this song receives or to what extent the Petitioner has 
received acclaim for this from 2012 until October 2016: 
Finally, the Petitioner cites to the 2003 atiicle in El Nacional titled 
which indicates that at the time of their debut album, the band had 
. already "achieved considerable popularity in South America and Jamaica itself." 5 We acknowledge 
the success had until they disbanded in 2012. · Although the evidence submitted shows. 
the Petitioner received recognition from the field as a member of , and that he was an 
active reggae musician as of the date the petition was filed in October 2016, it does not establish that 
he has sustained national or international acclaim as a member of ___ since 2012. 
Regarding the showcasing of the Petitioner's music in concerts; the record reflects that he was the 
lead singer for between 1998 and · 2012, when it disbanded. Between 2013 and 
October 2016 when the instant petition was filed, the Petitioner performed with his new band, 
at venues predominantly in Florida. He has n'ot shown how the concerts he performed with 
brought national or international acclaim to him. -While frequent performances are 
inherent to the musical profession, the regulation requires that evidence demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim, and not simply document a petitioner's continued employment or 
activity in his or her field. In this case, while the record documents the Petitioner's performances at 
concerts and festivals, the evidence does not establish that the festivals or concerts mentioned in the 
flyers advertising the events are of such a stature that participation in them might demonstrate 
national or international acclaim. Therefore, this evidence has not established that the Petitioner has 
enjoyed sustained acclaim as a result of his performances with 
As to his leading or critical role, the Petitioner asserts that the previously discussed letters, including 
those from former band members and 
5 The Petitioner also cites to the transcript ofan interview he conducted in 2018 with the Venezuelan radio 
station Circuito X, in which he discussed his work with · and ~s a solo artist, as well as upcoming projects. 
As previously discussed, however, the Petitioner must establish that. all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § I03.2(b)(l). 
· Thus, the Petitioner cannot establish eligibility with the interview that was published after the filing of the instant 
petition. · 
6 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
establish the Petitioner played a lead and critical role in as a founding 
member, composer, and lead singer. We acknowledge the Petitioner's rnle as lead singer for 
from 1998 to 2012, however,ias discussed previously, the record does not demonstrate that 
he has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim as a result of his performances with 
The Petitioner also asserts that he played a "leading role in the Latin Rastafarian community 
as a Latin American ambassador and cultural representative," in helping to "spread the Rastafarian 
message to Latin America through his reggae music." He cites to his participation in the 2007 
· exhibit, as discussed in two letters from a 
cultural anthropologist with the He .also highlights his attendance at the 
2005 in Panama, as mentioned in a letter from 
of the The Petitioner has not demonstrated, however, how the Latin 
Rastafarian community constitutes an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation 
in·-the Petitioner's field of reggae music, or otherwise shown how this evidence co~tributes to a 
finding of sustained national or international acclaim. 
With respect to commercial success, the Petitioner 's initial evidence included a letter from 
a manager with the of Venezuela, stating that 
the Petitioner "with his band has sold more than l 0,000 copies," and describing him . 
as "a renowned singer and songwriter." As noted by the Director, · letter does not 
specify whether "copies" refers to albums. Assuming that it does, did not explain what 
information she used to derive her statement regardingJhe band's record sales, nor did the Petitioner 
offer evidence of the band's commercial successes through receipts or sales. The Petitioner also· 
provided documentation for 2009 and 2013 from the 
showing international certification levels for album unit sales, indicating that in 
Venezuela an album that sells 5,000 units will be certified gold, while one that sells I 0,000 units will 
· be certified platinum. · · 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided further-documentation of 
internatii:mal certification levels for 2007, and the above-referenced letters froth 
and asserting that the albums have 
been "Gold" albums, each selling more than 5,000 albums. However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate / that any of albums have enjoyed unit sales at levels that reflect 
commercial successes compared to other musicians. Further, while we acknowledge that those 
albums have enjoyed a level of commercial success, and the Petitioner 's·role in the band, the record 
reflects that the band dissolved in 2012, after which the Petitioner performed on his own. He has not 
shown that he subsequently enjoyed commercial success in the field with his new band 
that resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
UL CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he is eligible as an individual 
of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Matter of L~E-S-L-
ORDER:· The appeal is dismissed. --
Cite as Matter of L-E-S:-L-; ID# 2018580 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
8 \ U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF B-D-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a testing and comm1ss10ning engineer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary. See Immigra!ion and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international' acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140,. Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. ( 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief~ arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review; we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the ali~n has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained· national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
r 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
extraordinary,ability, and 
(iii) the aiien'.s entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
·. United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for s·atisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioµer can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazar;an v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
· required number of crit~ria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner provides evidence of current employment at and 
1 Because he has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) .. In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. , 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six criteria, discussed below. We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or ;nternationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field o.lendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 20f 5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner offered various certificate s of recognition, achievement , and participation from his 
previous employer s, such as a "Certificate of Recognition" from for "2008 Most Outstanding 
1 The documentation, in the form of paychecks and paystubs, does not show in what capacity the Petitioner is employed 
or whether he works in his field of expertise as a testing and commissioning engineer. 
2 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
Employee of the Year,"2 "Certificate of Achievement" from for 
"outstanding contribution and support to this organization," and a "Certificate of Participation" from 
for "participation in the construction of coal plans in Quezon." While 
the Petitioner offered evidence showing his receipt of certificates, he did demonstrate that they are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field.3 · Here, he did 
-not show that his employer certificates are recognized by the overall field as awards for excellence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the .fieldf?r which classffication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements ol their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues_ that he meets this criterion based on membership with the 
In order to satisfy this criterion, membership in the association· 
must be based on being judged by recognized national or inteniation_al experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought.4 He submits a letter from 
who confirms the Petitioner's membership with and claims that "members of this 
society requires [sic] outstanding membership."5 However, did not include specific, 
detailed, and source-cited information supporting his assertion .. Moreover, according to previously 
offered screenshots from "[a]II persons whose names now appear in the roll of 
professional mechanical engineers, mechanical engineers, and certified plant mechanics ... or those 
who may hereafter be included therein upon registration and payment of the required fees shall 
automatically become members." Thus, automatic membership is bestowed on those who are in the 
profession, register, and pay the required fees, which are not indicative of outstanding 
achievements.6 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that membership is judged by recognized 
national or international experts. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills 
~scr~rioo. ' 
( 
2 The record also contains a letter from CEO of confirming that the Petitioner received the 
company award, as well as t~e nomination criteria and screenshots from aagp.ph relating to background and history of 
the company. . . 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-000Y I, Evaluation (~/" Evidence Suhmilled with Certain Form l-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicat or·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. . ·· · · · 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted_ based tipon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research). . . . . 
5 The Petitioner also provided a "Ce11ificate of Membership" from 
6 Id. at 7 (fin1ing that payment of a fee is not based on outstanding achievement in the field). 
3 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel. as a judge oft he work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of .specification for which class(fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitionei: claims to satisfy this criterion based on having "been invited, served and participated 
in the of 2011." In order to 
meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he participated in the judging of the work of others 
in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Previously, the Petitioner submitted a "Certificate of 
Participation" from president of the student council for "for sharing [his] knowledge · 
on 2011at" ,2011. On 
appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter from "thank[ing] [him] for judging the Institute 
2011 at ." Here, the Petitioner's certificate 
and brief conflicts with the letter regarding whether'he judged at the 2011. 
Incon~istencies in the record must be resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to 
where the truth lies .. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). He did not present 
credible, supporting evidence establishing that he participated as a judge at the event. Unresolved 
material inconsistencies may lead to reevaluate the reliability and sufliciency of other evidence 
submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fir:, scholarly. artistic. athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v),'a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably ini.pacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. · 
The Petitioner claims that "[ n ]umerous reference letters were submitted that provide contextual 
information about [his] significant contribution in his field." Specifically, the record reflects that he 
submitted three letters. who has an unidentified position at 
thanked the Petitioner for his "hard work and dedication." In addition, 
supervisor at indicated that the Petitioner "has shown 
an exceptional level of understanding and commitment to the construction process" and "is a 
dedicated professional who wins the respect of others through his hard work, integrity, and desire." 
Further, general manager at 
recommended the Petitioner "for any employment in the field of Testing Engineering" and "found 
that he is a self-driven person and full of initiatives. " · 1 
7 . . . 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
While t~e letters applaud the Petitioner's personal and job abilities, they do not identify original 
contributions that he has made to the field, nor do they explain how his contributions have been of 
major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subs'equent work add value.8 On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meetii-1g this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc. v. The. US All )i..Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). , 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden of showing that he has made original 
· contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he qualifies for this criterion based on his previous employment with 
and The Petitioner references 
letters from and discussed above, as well as letters from 
and As it relates to a leading role, the evidence 
must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.11 
Although the letters corifirm the Petitioner's employment, they do not demonstrate that he performed 
in a leading or critical role for any of the companies. For instance, ch~imed that "[t]here 
is no doubt that [the Petitioner] plays a significant role in our company," without further elaborating 
or supporting his asse,rtions. Moreover, although maintained that the Petitioner 
"contributed to the successful release of LED anchor mastheads underwater · lightning [sic] 
products," he~did not explain significance of the contribution to or how it demonstrates a 
leading or critical role. In addition, indicated that he served as an adviser and mentor to 
the Petitioner and "showed himself as a promising skilled Mechanical testing expert." However, 
did not provide detailed information showing how his role as a testing expert was leading or 
critical to Further, stated that the Petitioner "reported to him when he worked as a 
supervisor in the filter production clean room department" and increased production by 25% in the 
I 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supm, at 8-9. . 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an' individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 · See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at I 0. · 1 
11 Id. 
5 r 
.
_, Matter of B-D-C~ 
department. While discussed the Petitioner's impact on the department, he did not show 
how the Petitioner contributed to the success or stat~ding of overall. Here, the letters do not 
establish that he held a leading position, and they do not contain specific information signifying that 
he was essential to any of the companies. 12 
In addition, the letters do not contain information demonstrating that or have a 
distinguished reputation.13 Moreover, although the P~titioner claims that the "companies are all 
reputable" and he provided screenshots from their websites, the record contains insufficient evidence 
to support his assertion. As such, the Petitioner did not show that the companies enjoy an ,eminent 
reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field.14 He refer~nces a 
previously submitted letter from who indicated the Petitioner's salary was ¥5,500,000 
as a "Testing Engineer" and claimed that it"is I 0% beyond national coverage in Japan·." The record 
also contains a screenshot from payscale.com reflecting that the median wage for mechanical 
engineers in Japan is ¥3,916,083, with a salary range of ¥542,4 79 -¥8,721,506. 
The Petitioner, however, did not provide comparative wage data of other testing engineers, nor did 
he establish that testing engineers are similar to mechanical engineers consistent with the regulatory 
criterion's requirement of "in relation to others in the field." See Matter ol Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Regardless, 
even considering the average wages of mechanical engineers in Japan, the Petitioner's wages are not 
at the higher end of the scale. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that beinK "10% beyond 
. the national coverage in Japan" is indicative of a "high salary." As such, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). . 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
14 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005. I, supra; at I I. 
6 
·, 
Matter of]!-D-C-
IU. CONCLhlSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one~time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise· 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofB-D-C-, ID# 2093436 (AAO Feb. 19; 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and hp.migration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U .S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international ,acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
. The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form ·J-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a briet: arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraotdinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, busines1s, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
. extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability'' refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
A-fatter of L-D-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets. forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does ncit submit this evidence, then· he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirem\;'.nts, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is ~mong the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v .. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by·its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably trne." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior staff engineer at in California. 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director' found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
journals. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements ofat least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of L-D-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence, of the alien ·s original scientffic. scholarly. artistic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions o.f mc{jor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitio11er's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether he has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "has submitted evidence of numerous individual citations of his work 
that emphasize the major significance of his research." Specifically, the Petitioner generally 
references to his previously offered samples of research articles that cited to his work. For instance, 
the Petitioner provided a partial article entitled, 
in which the authors cited to his 2007 Journal 
of Applied Physics aiticle.1 However, the article does not distinguish the Petitioner's written work 
from the other 424 cited papers. Further, the sample articles do not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work.2 In the case here, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his published aiticles thrqugh citations rise to a level of "major 
significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner maintains that his "research was also acknowledged in a book chapter titled 
· and "the fact that these authors chose 
to dedicate so much attention to [the Petitioner's] work is a clear sign that his research is of major 
importance to the field at large." The record contains excerpts of the book chapter; however, the 
evidence does not support the Petitioner's assertion that the authors "dedicate[ d] so much attention" 
to his work. The passages provided by the Petitioner show that the authors devoted three sentences 
and used two figures in citing to his 2005 article; the book chapter is not about 
the Petitioner's written article of research. Regardless, the Petitioner has not established that a single 
book chapter, which cites to an article, is indicative of a contribution of major significance to the 
overall field. · ., 
1 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered eaci1 one. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of' Evidence Submilled with Certain Form /-140 
Petitions: Revisions lo the Adjudicator .'s Field Manual (AF!vl) Chapter 22.2, AF/vi Update ADI /-/4 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer ha.d not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her i111pact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 
.
Mq_tter of L-D-
In addition, the Petitioner argues that "leading researchers such as have 
repeatedly and significantly relied on his work in their own pioneering research studies." The 
Petitioner offered a recommendation letter from who indicated that he applied the 
Petitioner's research to four of his own studies. 3 For example, stated that "[m]y study 
is therefore a key point of reference for other electrical engineering researchers, and [the 
Petitioner's] research laid the foundation of my project," and "[ m ]y success in this regard owed 
greatly to [the Petitioner 's] previous research, since I applied his effective medium theory to my 
investigation." While · praises the Petitioner and credits him for assisting in his own 
research and work, he did not demonstrate how the Petitio11er's research has greatly impacted the 
overall field. 
, Further, the Petitioner contends that the Director improperly indicated his citations to other 
researchers and engineers who submitted recommendation letters on his behalf.4 Moreover, ·the 
Petitioner claims that the Director imposed a threshold number of total citations that is apparently 
required to demonstrate major significance . ln general, the comparison of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the 
record shows sustained national or international ac.claim and demonstrates that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if the Director 
determined he· met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d0 at 1115. 
However, the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this 
criterion in order to establish the field's general view of a contribution of major significance. 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance to the field. As the Petitioner has 
submitted evidence of his citation history from Google Scholar, he must show how those citations 
qualify as contributions of major significance. For instance, as indicated, the Petitioner presented 
evidence reflecting that his highest cited article received 121 citations at initial filing. In this case, 
however, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance orrelevance of that number. 5 Although his 
citations are indicative that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner di<l 
n'ot demonstrate that this citation number reflects that his article has been majorly significant to the 
field.6 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has tak~n interest in a petitioner's 
3 While we· address letter, we have reviewed and considered his other recommendation letters included in 
the record. 
4 For instance, the Director compared the Petitioner's citations (1,310 total citations and 121, 64, and 63 for his highest 
three cited articles) to (12,665 total citations and 1,368 for his highest citation article), 
(8,419 total citations and 832 for his highest cited aiticle ), and (21,459 total citations and 2,785 for 
his highest cited article). 
5 As discussed by the Director, the record appears to reflect that the Petitioner's' field contains articles that have been 
cited in the thousands . 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra. at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals tha·t have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, 
may be probative of the· significance of the person '_s contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
.
Matter of L-D-
work. The Petitioner, however, has not sufficiently identified the specific contributions he has made 
through his written work, nor has he shown that his citations for any of his published articles are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided data from Clarivate Analytics regarding baseline citation rntes 
and percentiles by year of publication for various research fields. The Director found CA's 
information to be "out-of-date " and "highly skewed."7 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence 
showing that the data is updated bi-monthly and an email from a representative of CA who explained 
that "[t]he word skew simply describes a natural phenomenon of _citation distributions: a few papers 
receive many cites, whereas most papers receive few or no cites" and "[t]here is no 'thumb on the 
scale' here, no skew, no inflation of an individual researcher's credentials into the top 10 percentile 
or deflation out of the top IO percentile." Further, the Petitioner presents a document that appears to 
be self-compiled entitled "ln-Field Author Comparator" regarding to his citation count percentiles 
and paper count percentiles. The Petitioner claims that the data was .derived fro1,11 "Microsoft 
Research " and compares his research impact to that of other researchers in elect~ical engineering , 
microelectronics , and photonics . Specifically , the Petitioner asserts that "Microsoft Research data 
establishes that [he] is among the top 0.08% of researchers in the field in terms of citation impact 
and the top 0.05% of researchers in the field of research productivity." , 
The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates, however , does not automatically 
establish majorly significant contributions to the field. Moreover, as discussed, the comparison of 
the Petitioner's cumu)J:itive citations to others in the field is more relevant in a final merits 
determination. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of niajor significance in the field rather than where his citation rates rank among others 
in his field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner 's 
citations to. other similarly ·, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major 
significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Publications and presentations are 
· not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance:" See Kazarian v. USCIS. 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.-3d 
1115. 
Moreover, the Petitioner maintains that implemented his 
technology and references a letter from integrated photonics engineering manager, who 
indicated that the Petitioner -developed a silicon photonics platform , which later licensed, and 
claimed that "[b ]ecause of[the Petitioner's] research, we have been. able to transform the indu-stry of 
optical communication." Similarly , the Petitioner offered a letter from 
deputy executive director at the who also · stated that -the Petitioner 
contributed to the development of the silicon photonics platform and "this technology has been 
licensed to over a dozen companies across the world." While the Petitioner prese11ted evidence of 
7 According to the CA documentation submitted by the Petitioner. "[c)itation frequency is highly skewed, with many 
infrequently cited papers and relatively few highly cited papers, -Consequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as 
representing the central tendency of the distribution." 
( 
5 
Matter 9.f l-D-
· licensing payments, he did not show that his silicon photonics platform is viewed by the greater field 
. as a contribution of _major significance. The_ Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed 
infonnation explaining the unusual influence or high impact the platform has had on the overall field 
without violating ariy confidentiality agreements. In addition to providing broad aue·stations, they do 
not show why it has been considered of such importance and how its impact on the field rises to the 
level required by this criterion. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance ~o the field and its impact on subsequent work add· value. 8 On the other 
hand, letters that lack specifics ·and use hyperbolic l_anguage do not add value, and are not considered· 
to be probative evidence that m~y form the basis for meeting this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc.,;_ The U.S. A11)1 Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9,.15 
(D.C. Dist 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made origi_nal contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Statu_s 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner- received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
-. nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior ·approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25· 
(D.D.C._ 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (O.O.C_. -1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
. Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between ·a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimm_igrant petition on behalf of an individual,_ we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 11.19-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
. the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
8 • . . See USCIS Po]icy fV!emorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individuars contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the fie I~)-
6_ 
Matter of l-D-
/ 
The Petitioner seeks a highly.restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields,1rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability"· standard. Matter <?f Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate. that the 
Petitioner has garnered n·ational or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has -risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2): 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary abili.ty. · 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-D-, ID# 2091154 (AAO Feb. 19, 2019) 
. \ 
.., J U.S. Citizenship 
and· Immigration 
Services· 
MATTER OF A-R-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a pastry chet: seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not submitted the required evidence for eligibility. 
• On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the Director did not consider 
the documentation submitted and her decision did not explain the reasons for denying the petition. 
During the adjudication of the appeal, we issued the Petitioner a notice of intent to dismiss (NOID) 
· due to discrepancies regarding her previous employment experience. The Petitioner responded to 
the NOID, providing supporting documentation to rebut the information discussed therein. 
Upon de. nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further proceedings consistent 
with the following. · 
I. LAW < 
Section'203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or int~rnational 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to . enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien.'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively· the. 
United States. 
Matter of A-R-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fo1ih two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published l'naterial in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we, then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazar;an v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013);.RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the ''truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of ~vidence alone but by it_s quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastry chef. As the record does not establish that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not provide 
sufficient reasoning for· the denial even though the initial documentation submitted with the petition 
contained evidence pertaining to the following criteria: awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
leading role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for any benefit, and each request must be 
properly completed and filed with all initial evidence required by applicable regulations or other 
instructions. · 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). · 1f the required initial evidence is ·submitted but does not 
. establish eligibility, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may deny the petition for 
•ineligibility, request more evidence, or issue a notice of intent to deny and provide an opportunity to 
respond'. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8)(ii). Notably, the instructions for the Form 1-140 specify that a 
petitioner seeking to establish extraordinary ability must include evidence of a one-time achieve~ent 
2 
.
Matter of A-R-
or three of the criteria set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), plus evidence of coming to ~he 
· United States to continue to work in his or her area of expertise.1 
Where a visa petition is denied based on a deficiency of proof, and the Director did not provide 
notice of the deficiency and offer a reasonable opportunity to address it before the denial, and the 
appeal contains additional evidence addressing the deficiency, then in the ordinary course of events 
we will remand to allow the Director to consider and address the new material. Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to 
consider the evidence submitted with the petition and the additional evidence submitted on appeal 
and in response to the NOID. 
As an additional matter, the Petitioner alleged that her employment as a. chef at the 
in demonstrated her leading role for an organization with a distinguished 
·, reputation under 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contained a letter from 
identified as the general manager of this hotel, indicating that the Petitioner worked there as head 
chef in the pastry division from February 1, 1998, through December 31, 2002. However, in a recent 
overseas investigation, an officer contacted the manager of the who 
informed the officer that the Petitioner was never employed there and that the hotel has never 
employed an individual named as the general manager. We informed the 
I 
Petitioner of this derogatory information in a NOID and provided an oppo1iunity for her to ~ebut 
these claims. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted documentation to support her claim that she did work as a chef 
for the Accordingly, the Director should also consider the Petitioner's 
response to determine if it is sufficient to overcome the alleged misrepresentation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, we remand the matter to the Director to consider whether the Petitioner 
meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If the Petitioner meets three of 
these criteria, the Director must consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among ti1e small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596' F.3d 1115. 
ORDER: The decisi~n of the Director i$ withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter of A-R-, ID# 1614058 (AAO Feb. 19, 2019) 
1 See https://www.uscis .gov/i-I 40 under "Instructions for Form 1-140." . ~--
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Irtrrnigration 
Servic~s Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF A-T-A- DATE: FEB. 21, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION \ 
PETITION: FORM I-HO, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a tennis academy, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts as "a curator and historian of Expressive Realism Art."1 See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Thi.s first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustaineg national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive docurrientation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We affirmed the Director's denial, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but 
not at least three of the ten criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), as required. We subsequently 
denied the Petitioner's motion to reopen the matter. ' 
The Petitioner has now filed its second motion, a motion to reconsider the matter. It asserts that we 
erred in om previous decision, and claims that it has presented evidence satisfying five additional 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (vi), (vii) and (viii). Upon review, we will deny the 
Petitioner's second motion. 
I. LAW 
. A motion to reconsider must establish that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application 
oflaw or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Moreover, a motion to recons(der must be 
supported by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement 
of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or Department of Homeland Security policy 
(DHS). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the 
requested immigration benefit. ,, 
1 The Petitioner initially offered the Ben~ficiary a "Business Development~& Sales M[anagemen]t'' position, but then 
withdrew the offer, claiming that it had mistakenly thought that a job offer was required to classify her as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. . · 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
In addition, the regulation specifies motion filing requirements, providing that a petitioner must submit 
"a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that "[a] motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed." 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has not submitted "a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable 
decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and 
status or result of the proceeding." It therefore has not met the motion filing requirements. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C); 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). In the alternative, for the reasons wewill 
discuss below, the Petitioner has not shown that .we should grant its motion to reconsider the matter. 
As explained in our' decision dismissing the appeal, the Petitioner has shown the Beneficiary's 
"participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification for which classification is. sought." It has therefore satisfied the judging 
\_ . criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner, however, has not established that we erred 
in our most recent decision denying its motion, concluding that it has failed to-satisfy two additional 
criteria. 2 ' · 
Docum,entation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for-which classffication 
i~ sought, whichrequire outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On motion, the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary's membership ih the 
, her appointment to be the head of the association's 
Donation Department, and her selection to handle art donations for the . . 
satisfy the membership criterion. The Petitioner advanced the same arguments on appeal and in 
support of its previously fifed motion. We addressed these arguments as well as the relevant evidence 
in our two decisions, one dismissing the appeal, and the other denying the motion. Specifically, we 
explained in our motion decision that while has certain membership requirements -including 
requiring candidates to submit written applications that are then evaluated by the board -the 
documentation in the record does not confirm that the association requires outstanding achievements 
of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their'disciplines or fields. 
The record lacks credible evidence on how the board evaluates candidates or that demonstrates the 
assessment is completed by recognized hational or international ·experts. · 
Moreover , as. discussed in our motion decision, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
appointments, which might illustrate her ability to carry out certain pr9fessional obligations, constitute 
2 The. Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that the Beneficiary has received a rnajor, 
internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, it must provide documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
./ 
Matter of A-T-A-
her membership in qualifying associations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). On motion, the Petitioner 
has not pointed to any pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or 
statement of USCIS or DHS in support of its p·osition that professional appointments qualify as 
membership in associations. As such, it has not established that we erred in our findings as relating 
to this criterion. · 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fic. scholarly. artistic, athletic. or business-related 
~ontributions of major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
; 
The Petitioner argues on motion, as it did on appeal and in support of its previously filed motion, that 
the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field based on her role in 
facilitating the donation of underrepresented art work to public and-educational institutions. One 
reference letter indicates that her work has "allow[ ed] a more nuanced view of the art from the interwar 
period." While reference letters in the record voice the authors' appreciation for the Beneficiary's 
effort in closing the gap in expressive realism art in U.S. museums, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that her actions rise to the level of contributions of major significance in the field, such that they have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or that her work is original, such that she was the first 
person or one of the first people to have helped in closing the gap in a particular area of art. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has the Beneficiary made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. Not all contributions are 
qualifying. Rather, a petitioner must offer documentation confirming that vthe contributions are of 
major significance. Major significance in the field may be shown through evidence, such as major 
llledia profiling or reporting, verifying that a beneficiary's work has been widely praised and 
recognizyd throughout the field. Reference letters, such as those in the record, that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and do not show that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with 
Certain Form 1-140 Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator '.s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22. 2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda. For example, 
the one-sentence letter from art historian and exhibition curator indicatingthat 
"there is a gap in in the US museums and that closing this gap is of major 
significance to the field," does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, as the record 
does not substantiate the conclusory statement. On motion, the Petitioner has not presented any legal 
authority establishing that we erred in our findings as relating to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major medici. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On motion, the Petitioner states that the Beneficiary's one-page article about . an 
artist, published in Game Over _satisfies this criterion. 3 It contends that Game 'Over is "an art catalog" 
and that "by definition ... [it] is a professional publication in the field of art." It also claims that the 
. . 
3 While we neglected to discuss this criterion in our motion decision, we had explained our reasons for c~ncluding that the 
Petitioner did not meet this criterion in our decision dismissing the appeal. · . · 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
publication "cannot be considered anything less than a major trade publication as its only purpose is 
. to present and promote art." The Petitioner has not pointed to any evidence in the record confirming 
that the publication is "an art catalog" that qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. Its 
statements that the record does not substantiate are insufficient to show that it satisfies this criterion. 
'Regardless, the Petitioner has not established that the article is scholarly. "In general, [a scholarly 
article] should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or 
pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article." See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. In contrast, the Beneficiary's article is written as a one-page letter to 
with a photograph of his art installation, but does not include other elements commonly 
found in scholarly articles. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that this writing qualifies as a 
scholarly article. Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibUions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner acknowledges on motion, as it did previously, that the Beneficiary is not a painter or an 
artist, but claims that she satisfies this criterion because she was a "book coordinator" for 
and served as a curator for exhibits in the gallery she owned. The field in which the Beneficiary 
claims extraordinary ability is expressive realism art. The Petitioner, however, has not established 
that her duties as a book coordinator and curator relates to her work in that specific field. 
Moreover, although the editor of -~ thanked the Beneficiary. for "coordinating this 
wonderful book," he did not explain what she did specifically. On motion, the Petiti.oner claims that 
her duties included "edit[ing] all eJements of the book for style, substance, and organization," 
"review[ing] the layout," and ''oversee[ing] all aspects of production.". The record, however, lacks 
sufficient evidence, such as statements from the author and editor, to support these assertions. As 
such, the Petitioner has not shown that w~ erred in our determination as relating to this issue. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner has offered two 2018 letters from artists who had displayed their 
work in the Beneficiary's gallery, these letters are insufficient to confirm that she meets this criterion. 
The letters contain verbatim passages relating to the Beneficiary's responsibilities as a gallery owner. 
The identical wordings lead us to question if the letters credibly reflect the authors' independent 
observations. See Ye v. US. Dep 't o_f Justice, 489 F .3d 51 7, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( stating that nearly 
identical language in separate asylum affidavits may support an adverse credibility finding). 
Regardless, the letters provide that the Beneficiary "personally invited, curated, exhibited, and 
mentored ... talented young artists," but do not specificaIJy explain what she did or otherwise 
demonstrate that her activities associated witl-i' being a gallery owner constitute the display of her work 
in the field of expressive realism art at artistic exhibitions or showcases. As such, the Petitioner has 
not shown that we erred in concluding that the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
Evidence .that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion because she has performed in a 
leading or critical role for the which hired her to facilitate its donation of 
artwork to one of the three According to a letter 
from the owner of the foundation, he authmized the Beneficiary to donate a part of his collection to a 
U.S. institution of her choice to present the art to the American public. 
To establish a leading role, the evidence must show that the foreign national is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to qemonstrate if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. Here, the record, including ·the letter 
from the founciation's owner, does not show that the Beneficiary has led the foundation. Similarly, 
although the Beneficiary has been entrusted to facilitate the donation of artwork, the evidence is 
insufficient to demonstrate that she has performed in a critical role, such that she has contributed in a 
way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
Id. The Petitioner has offered limited information on the foundatiori's activities besides donating 
pieces from its collection. Furthermore, the record, while verifies the foundation's donations, does 
hot include sufficient documentation establishing that it has a distinguished reputation, as required 
under the regulation. As such, the Petitioner has not shown that we erred in concluding the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider the matter will be denied because it does not meet the motion 
filing requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), (a)(4). In the alternative, the motion will be 
denied because it does not establish that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application 
oflaw or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-A-, ID# 2060602 (AAO Feb. 21, 2019) 
5 U.S~ Citizenship. 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 26, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Taekwondo competitor and trainer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director.of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets three criteria. He argues that the Director's decision 
was erroneous and did not reflect the documentation contained in the record. With his appeal, the 
Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b~ of the Act states in pertinent part: 
(1) Priority workers. --Visas shall first be made available ... to qualified immigrants 
who are aliens described in any of the following subparagraphs (A) through (C): 
(A) Aliens with extraordinary ability. -An alien is described in this subparagraph 
if-
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national 
or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
ex:traordinary ability, and 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
· such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
-Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
deterniined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was training at the 
master/owner of the martial arts academy, indicated he intends to hire the Petitioner as the head· 
instructor and that his duties will include "teaching and coaching students, ages 4 years and up, the 
Olympic Sport of.Taek,wondo." 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognizecl award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets the following criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Upon review of all of the evidence , we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
meets the plain language requirements of at least three criteria . 
. Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204,5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence demonstratin g that he won a gold medal at the 2015 
In addition, the record i_ncludes documentation such as media coverage indicating the 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
national recognition of awards from this,event. Accordingly, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field.for which class(fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that he meets this criterion based on his membership with the 
The Petitioner provided a document that indicated the 
"certifies that [the Petitioner] is registered in the federation registers (as a 
player) ... on 07/07/2001, Olympic sp01is club." It listed six "republican championships" in Egypt 
and 30 "international championships and camps" that he participated in as a member of the 
Taekwondo team. In addition, we note that the record includes a letter from Master/Owner 
of , stating that the Petitioner "is currently on the 
and is one of the top ranked competitors in Taekwondo," as well as internet print-outs from 
https://worldtkd.simplycompete.com listing the Petitioner's license number for 
GMS, and www.ma-regonline indicating he represented the at the 
2016 and placed second in his category. The Petitioner, however, did not 
provide information or. documentary evidence regarding the membership requirements or selection 
processes for the or the 
to establish that any of these associations require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. He therefore has not established that he 
, meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in pr<?fessional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field.for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). · 
The Petitioner submitted two articles from the "Ahram Sport" website at http://sport.ahram.org.eg. 
· We note that any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit properly certified English language 
translations of the articles, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material 1s 
accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Further, while the articles entitled '' 
" and " 
1" appear to be about-the Petitioner , the record does .not include evidence regarding the 
Ahram Sport website, such as, for instance, documentation regarding its circulation along with 
comparative statistics, to demonstrate that this publication is a form of major media. In addition, the 
submitted · article from the "Al Ahram" website at www.ahram.org.eg is about the Taekwondo event 
3 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
(' 
in which he competed rather than the Petitioner himself. Specifically, the article entitled "' 
" summarizes numerous individuals' 
performances at the event and only briefly mentiot1s the Petitioner. The plain language of the 
regulatory criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about the 
Petitioner do .not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at 
*I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Similarly, the record includes online articles from the "Wikipedia" website at 
https://en.wikipedia.org, "Elbalad.news" at www.elbalad.news, and "World Taekwondo United 
News" at www.wtu.kr. The Wikipedia article entitled'\ ," lists 
all first through third place competitors, including the Petitioner, in 16 events.' The Elbalad article 
entitled " " discusses the 
Taekwondo event and only references the Petitioner's participation. The World Taekwondo United 
News article entitled" ," summarizes the event's results and does 
not mention the Petitioner. Accordingly, these articles are not about the Petitioner as required by 
this criterion, nor does the record contain documentation demonstrating the qualifying nature of 
these publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered articles from the "Vetogate" website at www.vetogate.com and the 
"Al Bawabh" website at www.albawabhnews.com. Although these two articles are about the 
Petitioner, the authors were not provided and he has not shown that these websites qualify as a form 
of major media. Accordingly, he has not established that he meets this regulatory\criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has failed to submit the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. 2 Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. The appeal will be 
dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis 
for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for 
1 We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee 
the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer ; see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
· 2 In addition, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we 
need not detennine whether his intended teaching and coaching work constitutes coming to "continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). See also USCIS Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM), ch. 
22.22(i)( I )(C). 
4 
Matter ofY-E-A- . 
the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U .S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural 
Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
ORDER: 1he appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofY-E-A-, ID# 2090747 (AAO Feb. 26, 2019) 
,, 
5 U.S. Citizenship _· 
and lmmi,gration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-F-D-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 27, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jiu-jitsu coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l l 53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification ·makes immigrant visas available to those who. can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or· international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. · 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Forni 1-140, Immigrant Petition. for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied ·only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must mee\ at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated · by sustained national or international 
acclaim ·and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantiafly benefit prospectively the 
United States. I . . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally ~ecognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)"""""' (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record· shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 20~3); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
----determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," ·as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
. probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized. award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R . 
. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of 
the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies six of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) directly "or with comparable evidence now introduced." For the reasons 
q.iscussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
Documentation of the. alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought. which require outstanding achievements o_f'their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
As evidence that he meets this criterion, the Petitioner refers to a statement from 
, president of the an article from 
Wikipedia titled and a letter from 
a sports business executive and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Black Belt.1 
. ' 
1 The Petitioner alternately indicates that the submitted documentation constitutes "comparable " evidence relating to this 
2 
.
Maller of F-F-D-S-
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association, and 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.2 Although 
the materials demonstrate the Petitioner's affi I iation with the record lacks evidence 
demonstrating membership requirements for this association to show that, it requires outstanding 
achievements , as judged by recognized national or international experts. While we also note that the 
Petitioner received a black belt from he has not established that this constitutes a 
membership in an association · and provides no additional evidence demonstrating the process or 
requirements for selection as a black belt. For these reasons the Petitioner has not shown he meets 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien ·s work in the field for whici1 classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translahon 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree and will 
withdraw that finding. The record does not contain published material about the Petitioner in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author. 3 
It contains a 2010 article entitled in Veja, a Portuguese language magazine, 
but the article was not accompanied by a full English language translation as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the article, we cannot meaningfully determine whether it meets the 
requirements of this criterion. Regardless , the article does not appear to be about the Petitioner 
relating to his work as a jiu-jitsu instructor, nor did he provide evidence demonstrating that Veja is a 
professional or major trade publication or other form of major media. 
The record also includes an article titled from 
tmzsports.com. This article is not about the Petitioner nor does it mention him, but it instead 
discusses a altercation withan alleged robber at home.4 Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See. e.g.. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding 
a show are not about the actor). We also note that the article in the record does not identify the 
author of the material, as required by the criterion. Furthermore , the Petitioner did not provide 
criterion. We discuss the Petitioner's comparable evidence claim below. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Acadeiny of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). ( 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 The record contains a notarized ~tatement by indicating that the Petitioner has trained him in Brazilian jiu-
jitsu since December 2014. 
3 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
documentation demonstrating that tmzsports.com is a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. 
, Finally, the record contains two articles from abc-7.com titled 
and 
Both of these articles are about the Petitioner in his capacity as a jiu-jitsu coach. However, the 
record lacks evidence demonstrating that abc-7 .com is a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sigtJificance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. The 
Petitioner asserts on appeal that he meets this criterion, but does not ident_ify specific evidence for us 
1 ' to consider. The Petitioner iriitially provided a letter and other documentation relating to this 
criterion. In one letter, a sports business executive and Brazilian 
Jiu-Jitsu Black Belt, states that the Petitioner has made a.positive "impact in [Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu] 
history, spreading the fundaments [sic] of the martial art t·o thousands of people that were once his 
student, supporting people to overcome personal, social and health problems, and becoming better 
elements for society overall." The record also contai'ns a statement from · 
naming the Petitioner as the international representative of for "his singular work in the field 
of this martial art, national and international contribution to the expansion and preservation of 
traditional ... " In addition, of the 
noted that the Petitioner "provides realistic and practical Jiu-Jitsu training tailored to 
law enforcement/correctional officers." He co1nmends the Petitioner for "his continued dedication 
to and the citizens of ____ it is a testament of his abilities, character, and 
generosity." 
The above letters do not provide sufficient information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate how the Petitioner's work as a jiu-jitsu coach has been 
a contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 
Evidence that the alien has per/aimed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated he performed a leading or critical role 
for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and. referenced a letter in th~ record from 
5 USCIS Policy Memoranduin PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
4 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
On appeal, the Petitioner argub that the Director did not analyze the 
correct evidence, and instead identifies two pieces of documentation from the that he asserts 
establish his performance in a critical role for that office. 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is 
not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is or was critical.6 The Petitioner argues that the memo from to 
the Petitioner, serves as "a specific professional request to operate a CRITICAL ROLE." (Emphasis 
in original.) states in this memo that trainers are certified to train law 
enforcement and corrections staff in but that "they needed to expand their 
knowledge and abilities to provide a well-rounded product for our deputies." He notes that " ... 
several of trainers have trained with [the Petitioner] several Jimes a week. The skills and 
techniques that our trainers are learning during these sessions continues to expand their confidence 
and abilities to train the techniques to oui· deputies." Here does not provide 
detailed and probative information addressing how the Petitioner's role as a jiu-jitsu coach has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of activities. 
Moreover, in this memo recommends that "formally contract with [the 
Petitioner] to provide advisory and technical defense. tactics" including "tactic specific instructions 
[sic] and practical application ·of skills on a bi-monthly basis as needed" for the In the 
. second document, a contract between the Petitioner and indicates that the Petitioner "shall 
conduct course for personnel at the 
upon reasonable notice." 7 As described in this part of the memo and in the 
contract, the Petitioner's contributions are prospective, rather than demonstrating that he is 
performing or has already performed a critical role for as required. Without information and 
evidence documenting the impact and importance of any work the Petitioner has conducted for 
the record does not demonstrate the critical nature of his role for this organization. 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that qualifies as an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, saying that reputation is unquestionable as it is a government agency. In support 
of this assertion, the Petitioner provides a printout of a Wikipedia article titled 
"8 This article provides a general description of the office of county sheriff in Florida, as 
well as a list of the sheriff's duties as provided for in the Fl_orida statutes. However, this article lacks 
information on the or its reputation, nor does the record include other evidence on this issue. 
6 Id. 
7 We note that this contract was executed in March 2018, after the instant petition had been filed. Even were this 
document to establish that the Petitioner met the criterion, he must do so at the time of filing. Eligibility must be 
established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(I), (12); Matier of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 
1971. . 
8 Wikipedia is an online, open source~ collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer , Wikipedia (Feb. 11, 2019), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia :General_discla 
imer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
5 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signfficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation lo others in the .field 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix) . 
In order to· satisfy this criterion·, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or 
othe~ significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field.9 The record 
contains uncertified copies of the Petitioner's 2016 and 2017 tax returns. These tax returns show 
that the Petitioner earned a salary of $6,660 in 2016 and $8,090 in 2017.10 The returns further show 
that the Petitioner additionally received business income in the amounts of $39,072 in 2016 and 
$77,911 in 2017. We note that other documentation in the record indicates that the Petitioner is the 
proprietor of which does business as 
While the tax returns indicate that the Petitioner's principal business or profession is "Jiu Jitsu 
Instructor, " the record lacks evidence demonstrating that this business income equates to his salary 
or income as an instructor. 
The record also includes screenshots from paysa.com and simplyhired.com which list salaries for the 
top 10% of martial arts instructors as $33,517 and $72,674, respectively.11 However, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that salaries of martial arts instructors represent an accurate basis of 
comparison for his earnings. As noted above, the record lacks sufficient documentation to establish 
his salary as a jiu-jitsu instructor in either 2016 or 2017. In addition, we note that previously 
submitted screenshots from indeed.com, which reflected average salaries in locales within Florida, 
indicated thatjiujitsu coaches earn significantly more than "martial arts" instructors.12 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicates that comparable evidence has been submitted relating to three 
criteria: membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commercial success at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his 
occupation. 13 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has 
included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 14 Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. General assertions 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at I I. 
10 Neither tax return indicates the payer of these salaries, and the tax returns do not include W-2s. 
11 We note that these screenshots do not identify the geographic area from which this data was collected . 
12 The screenshots indicate that, in North Fort Myers and Naples respectively, jiu jitsu coaches earn an average of 
$67,000 and $66,000, while martial arts instructors earn $39,000 and $38,000. · 
u See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 12. 
14 Id. 
Matter of F-F-D-S-
that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and 
should be ·discounted. 15 The fact that the Petitioner did not submit documentation that fulfills at least 
three is not evidence that a jiu-jitsu coach could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
show that he is eligible to meet· the initial evidentiary requirements through the submission· of 
comparable evidence. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained or established how the 
documentation he has provided is comparable to the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required ini_tial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
! · documents that meet at least three of the ten ·criteria. · As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofF-F-D-S-, ID# 2118436 (AAO Feb. 27, 2019) 
ts Id.. 
., MATTEROF E-S-N-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 28, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IM~IGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
· The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose ach,ievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets a third criterion that relates to original contributions 
of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R._§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), and qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive.documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
' ability, and 
(iii)the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence requirements. 
.
Matter of E-S-N-
First, a petlt10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
.principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility , 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven·is probably true." Matter ofChawathe , 25 r&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
IL ANALYSIS 
) 
The record, including the Petitioner's statements , shows that he is an advertising executive and an 
artist specialized in pop art. The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the published material 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 1 and the display, criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii) .2 The record supports this conclusion. Specifically , the Petitioner has submitted 
articles discussing his artwork and exhibitions in publications that, based on their circulation and 
reach, are considered major media in his country of citizenship, Brazil. In addition, he has 
established that his work has been displayed at the __ and a 
cultural center. Although he has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii), he 
has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements of meeting at least three criteria. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets a third criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , 
which requires him to present "[e]vidence of [his] original scientific , scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
1 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires the Petitioner to submit "[p]ublished material about the alien in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought," noting that "[s]uch evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation." · 
2 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) requires the Petitioner to submit "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's 
work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. " 
3 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements . 
2 
.
Matter of E-S-N-
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field. Not all contributions are qualifying. Rather, he must offer 
documentation confirming that his contributions rise to the level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner maintains that he has met this criterion because he has offered "a host of publications 
and announcements concerning the event, and 
that "[his] works were so well-received that the presentation and exhibition of the works was 
published in practically every medium from online to magazines, newspapers and television in 
Brazil." On appeal, he offers a June 2017 letter from who had served as the 
curator for his exhibitions, and an analytical report from . , a museological 
consultant firm, as evidence that his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in 
pop art. 
In his letter, a curator at the indicates that he allowed the Petitioner to show 
his work at the museum because of "its originality. " He states that the Petitioner 's art "opened up a 
heated debate on means of communication, views of different moments in time and new ways of 
differentiating between the individual and the collective observation. " He claims that the work 
"made an impact on the artistic world, and people saw in [the] work an unexpected offshoot of Pop 
Art and a real contribution to 'contemporary Brazilian art." He notes that he wrote a book about the 
Petitioner and his artwork. 
The analytical report, like the letter from provides details about the Petitioner 's 
work, including his exhibits, explaining that he has combined visual 
elements from different eras to create art that is thought provoking . The report indicates that the 
Petitioner's work has been exhibited in two "important and reputable Brazilian contemporary art 
museums," including the and has garnered favorable reviews. It also provides that in 2014, 
wrote a book about the Petitioner. 
The record includes insufficient evidence establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, 4 that the 
Petitioner's work constitutes major significance in pop art. While the decisions of museums and 
other artistic venues to show the Petitioner's work might confirm that they saw value in the work 
and believed that it should be shared with the public, such activities alone, without evidence of their 
major significance in the field, are not sufficient to satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. For example, the confirms in an October 2009 letter that it presented the Petitioner's 
work in an exhibition. The letter, however, does not indicate what impact the work might have had 
in the field, or that the museum chose to present the exhibition because the work or the Petitioner 
4 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, anicredible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Aqjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov /laws/policy-memoranda . 
.
( . Maller of E-S-N-
had significantly influenced or impacted pop art. Similarly, although published materials in the 
record discussed the opening of the exhibition and offered information about the artwork, 
they do not specify the exhibition or the Petitioner's contributions in the field, or demonstrate that 
such contributions rose to the level of major significance. 
The documents in the record, including reference letters and evidence we have not specifically 
discussed , do not confirm that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted or influ{?nced, or 
otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in pop art. Letters that offer general praises 
of the Petitioner and that repeat the regulatory language, but do not sufficiently explain how his 
contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, 9 (noting "[l]etters that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"); see also Kazarian , 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding 
"letters from physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were 
insufficient to meet this criterion) ; Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a 
ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as 
a whole). 
Likewise, the record does not confirm that the publication of book is indicative of 
the Petitioner's contributions of major significance in pop art. The book, which the 
5 had published, details art workshops that the Petitioner led and that 
were designed for individuals with intellectual impairments. It documents the participants' creative 
process and showcases their finished artwork. The book does not discuss the Petitioner 's 
contributions in pop art, the field in which he claims extraordinary ability, nor does it establish that 
his contributions rise to the level of major significance or that his selection to lead the workshops 
confirms that he has made contributions of major significance in pop art. Based on the evidence in 
the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in pop art. · 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
5 The record shows that the is a public interest organization in Brazil, 
that helps intellectually impaired individuals . 
4 
Matter ofE-S-N-
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his artistic accomplishments is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of E-S-N-, ID# 2131108 (AAO Feb. 28, 2019) 
5 MATTER OF V-E-O-J-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a guitarist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes i~migrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a guitarist. The record reflects that from 1990 to 2000, he was the lead guitarist for 
the Philippine band The band then took a hiatus in 2000 until regrouping in 2005, this 
time without the Petitioner as a member. The record demonstrates that he rejoined the band as its 
lead guitarist in 2016. 
A. Substantial Benefit and Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
As an initial matter, the Acting Director held that because the Petitioner was recently unemployed 
and doing pro bono work as a guitarist after reuniting with Introvoys, he had not established that he 
would work to substantially benefit prospectively the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
states that the petitioner must show that he seeks to enter the United States "to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability" and that his entry "will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states that "the petition must be accompanied by 
clear evidence that [the petitioner] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of 
expertise," noting that such evidence may include a statement "detailing plans on how he or she 
intends to continue his or her work in the United States." We note that the Petitioner's statement in 
the record demonstrates that while he did not receive compensation for the shows in which he had 
performed, his intent was to work in his field of expertise by returning to the lntrovoys as the lead 
guitarist. He states that the band had been raising money for future tour expenses and to complete a 
studio. the drummer for , indicates that members of the band will 
begin receiving compensation once the studio is completed . We find that this evidence, together 
with the Petitioner's statement , sufficiently establishes that he intends to continue working in the 
2 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
area of extraordinary ability in a manner that will substantially benefit the United States to meet the 
requirements of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding in 
this regard. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met the following criteria: 
published material, judging, leading or critical role, and commercial successes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii), and (x), respectively, but that he had not met the criteria for scholarly 
articles, display, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (vii), and (ix). Ultimately, she 
concluded that the Petitioner had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. Here, we 
find that the record supports the conclusion that he meets three criteria to warrant a final merits 
determination. 1 
Specifically, we disagree with the Acting Director regarding published material and find that the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The Petitioner asserts that 
interviews conducted by Filam Star and UNTV meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
First, the record contains printouts from these websites with transcriptions of the interviews, but the 
record does not contain the dates of these interviews or proper translations of these documents as 
substantial portions of the interviews are in a foreign language. Any document in a foreign language 
must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator 
must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Second, the questions asked are 
about rather than focusing on the Petitioner individually in a manner that relates to his 
work in the field. The record does not contain evidence demonstrating Filam Star is major media or 
to establish that it is a professional or major trade publication to meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The other publications in the record, including the article from UNTV, are about 
and not about the Petitioner. See, e.g.. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at 
* 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the 
1 The Petitioner cites 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) and asserts that evidence of the songs he has written and the showcasing of 
his music in concerts constitutes comparable evidence that should be accepted instead of the scholarly articles and 
display criteria, which he claims do not readily apply to his occupation. The Acting Director held that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) is not applicable here because the Petitioner has met three criteria. The Petitioner contends that an 0-1 
nonimmigrant USCIS policy memorandum is instructive in this matter for the proposition that comparable evidence may 
be submitted if any of the criteria do not apply. The Acting Director held that memoranda for nonimmigrant visa 
classifications do not apply here. We agree. For the policy memorandum that is applicable to this matter, see USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 . E\'(//11u1ion o(EFidence S11h111i11ed wilh Cerlain Form /-140 Pel it ions: Revisions to 
the .4.diudicator's Field Manual rAFkl) Chapter ll.2. AFM Ut)(fate ADI 1-1-1 (Dec. 22. 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005- I .pdf. We also note 
that because the Petitioner has met three criteria, it is unnecessary for us to reach the comparable evidence issue. That 
said, in the final merits analysis we will consider the evidence of the songs the Petitioner has written and the concerts in 
which he has performed. 
3 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
actor).ln the few places where the Petitioner's name is mentioned, such as in articles from Smash! 
Magazine, the only details provided are about his biographical information and basic interests as part 
of the profiles of the band members. This does not constitute published material about him that 
relates to his work in the field as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he meets this criterion. 
We agree with the Acting Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for judging, 
critical role, and commercial success. For judging, the record indicates that in 
Philippines, the Petitioner was a judge for in 2015 and the leading or 
Laguna, 
singing contest in 2016, which satisfies the requirements of this criterion. Regarding leading or 
critical role, the record reflects that he meets this criterion as he was the lead guitarist for 
for approximately ten years, co-writing some of the band's most successful songs and the record 
shows that the band is an organization with a distinguished reputation.2 For commercial successes, 
the record demonstrates that the Petitioner, as a member oflntrovoys, shared in the band's success in 
record sales achieving gold, platinum, double platinum, triple platinum, and quadruple platinum 
awards. This demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final 
merits determination below.3 
C. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the record 
demonstrates, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
For published material, the record contains articles from the 1990s in Smash! Magazine about the 
with several articles that only mention the Petitioner as a guitarist for with his 
profile and basic interests. While indicative of acclaim during the 1990s, the other publications in 
the record do not establish that he has enjoyed national or international acclaim from 2000 through 
2016 when he rejoined the band. 
2 Later in the decision, but prior to the final merits discussion, the Acting Director held that he did not meet the leading 
or critical role criterion, even though she held that he did meet this criterion at the beginning of the decision. Here, we 
clarify that the record establishes that he meets this criterion. 
' As the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, we will discuss the evidence regarding each of the criteria he raises in the 
context of a final merits discussion. We will also discuss the evidence in the record of the Petitioner's song-writing 
ability and the showcasing of his music in concerts as part of the final merits discussion. 
4 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
As stated above, the record lacks certified translations of the interviews of members of 
published on the websites for Filam Star and UNTV, and it is unclear when these interviews took 
place or how widely viewed they were. We further note that these interviews discuss the success of 
the band in the 1990s and do not demonstrate that the Petitioner , as an individual , has enjoyed 
sustained national or international acclaim from 2000 onward. Documentation in the record from 
the Ranker website contains an article entitled, _ 
which lists the as number 26th. This ranking does not list individual members 
of and the Petitioner has not shown how this demonstrates his sustained national or 
international acclaim from 2000 onward. Also, in an article from 8List.ph entitled 
the '90s" is ranked 8th, but this relates to the band's success in the 1990s. 
The Petitioner states that we should not disregard the published material about simply 
because he was not a member at the time of publication , asserting that his acclaim is tied to the 
success of the original band. However , the record does not show what level of success the 
had from its restructuring in 2005 onward, or that its success during this time brought national or 
international acclaim to the Petitioner. Therefore, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has sustained national of international acclaim while not being a part of 
from 2000 to October 2016. 
With respect to judging, the two certificates regarding the Petitioner's judging experiences for the 
and the singing contest demonstrate that these were local 
events for the City of The record does not reflect that he received any other recognition 
for his role in judging these contests outside of this city to constitute national or international 
acclaim. 
Regarding the showcasing of the Petitioner's music in concerts, the record reflects that he was the 
lead guitarist for the during the 1 990s at the height of its success, but he has not shown 
how any concerts the band performed after his departure brought national or international acclaim to 
him. We note his first performance after reuniting with the band took place in February 2017. Even 
if he had shown that he again received national or international acclaim after rejoining in 
2016, or 2017 at his first concert as a reunited member of the band, this is not sufficient to establish 
sustained acclaim in the intervening period. The record contains reviews of concerts where 
performed, but the evidence does not demonstrate when these concerts took place or if the 
Petitioner performed. Furthermore, the publications with these reviews appear to be blog posts that 
individuals have posted on the Internet, but it has not been established how widely these reviews 
have been viewed. . Therefore, this evidence has not established that the Petitioner has enjoyed 
sustained acclaim as a result of his performances with 
As to his leading or critical role and his song-writing abilities, states that the 
Petitioner "has made valuable contributions into helping our collaborative efforts achieve what they 
were intended to do." He notes that their "most prominent collaboration , a song called 
is still on current rotation in terrestrial radio in the Philippines.'' As stated above, we note 
the success the had in the 1990s, but the Petitioner has not established how the current 
radio play of this song equates to his sustained national or international acclaim. It has not been 
5 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
shown how much current radio play this song receives or to what extent the Petitioner has received 
acclaim for this from 2000 to 2016. While the record contains evidence of Y ouTube views of many 
of the songs of it is unclear over what period of time these views took place, and the 
Petitioner has not shown how this amounts to national or international acclaim. 
In a letter from the lead guitarist for the Filipino band during the 
1990s, he states that the Petitioner "was the lead guitarist of the band when their greatest hits were 
released ... making him an integral and intrinsic part of the band's successful sound." He indicates 
that and were among the most popular bands in the 1990s and had been in 
numerous occasions featured in the same shows or events." He notes that "[the Petitioner's] style is 
extraordinary insofar as creating melodic guitar 'pyrotechnics' that pulls inspiration from guitar 
legends Eddie Van Halen, Niel Schon, Yngwie Malmsteen and Jimi Hendrix while still maintaining 
his own unique musical sensibility, which in turn has made him an inspiration and hero to the next 
generation of Filipino guitarists." Similarly, , the lead vocalist in the Filipino band 
states that the Petitioner "is a true master of his instrument," "[h ]is sound is very distinct 
and his playing style, which clearly drew inspiration from other guitar icons, has blended so well" 
and "is now uniquely his." indicates that his "searing, melodic and sometimes anthemic 
guitar solos were something the audience anticipated." We acknowledge the Petitioner's expertise 
and his role as lead guitarist for from 1990 to 2000, but the record does not demonstrate 
that he has had sustained national or international acclaim from 2000 until October 2016 when he 
reunited with 
Pertaining to high salary, the record contains a letter from the former manager 
for stating that the band earned 150,000 Philippine pesos (Php) per show during its 
popularity in the 1990s. The Petitioner has not provided corroborating evidence to substantiate the 
salary he earned during this time or how it compared to other bands. Even if this had been 
established, he has not shown how his salary contributed to his sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
With respect to commercial success, the record contains a certification from 
detailing the album sales for the which include gold, platinum, double platinum, triple 
platinum, and quadruple platinum awards. While we acknowledge the commercial success of the 
in the 1990s and the Petitioner's role in the band during that time, the record reflects that 
the band took a hiatus in 2000 and that when the band resumed its activity, he was no longer part of 
it. In addition, he states that he left the music business in 2004 and the record reflects that he 
rejoined in October 2016. He has not shown that he enjoyed commercial success in the 
field from 2000 to October 2016 that resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. In 
addition, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has been commercially successful in the 
field since rejoining the band in 2016.4 
4 Documentation from the website indicates that in June 2013, the band went on a "successfu l, well-attended 
16-month tour of different cities, states, and provinces in the U.S. and Canada," but the Petitioner was not a member of 
the band at this time. 
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary is eligible as 
an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-E-D-J-C-, ID# 1846417 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
.., .
U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OFJ-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in environmental 
engineering. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not submit certified English translations of foreign language documents and had satisfied only one of 
the initial evidentiary criterion, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation, contending that he meets seven of the 
ten criteria and qualifies for the classification. He maintains that he intends to operate a consulting 
firm in and that "[his] work could address real needs in American society clearly and 
unequivocally." 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to present 
comparable material if he or she can show that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In an August 2016 statement, the Petitioner indicates that he is "an established scientist" with "three 
decades of professional experience." He maintains that he has "devoted all [his] life to 
environmental engineering and related research, especially in water supply and wastewater disposal 
to solve major environmental problems such as water pollution." According to his 2016 "Statement 
Detailing My Plan to Continue Work in the United States," if the petition is approved, he intends to 
work as the "Chief Consultant" for a consulting firm I that he will establish "on water pollution 
prevention and control in America to make the information and technology [he had] gathered or 
developed from [his] previous research in China and Japan available in the United States." 
We have reviewed all the documents in the record, including those not specifically discussed in this 
decision, and conclude that they do not show the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirement of presenting documentation meeting at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 According to a letter from a company in China, it "has 
authorized [the Petitioner] to set up a consulting firm ... in America as its U.S. affiliate." 
2 
.
Matter of J-L-
A. Foreign Language Documents 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) specifies that a petitioner must provide certified English 
translations for foreign language documents. It provides: 
Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS [U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services] shall be accompanied by a full English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the 
translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign 
language into English. 
In her decision denying the petition, the Director indicated that the Petitioner had submitted foreign 
language documents, but not their full English translations. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director erred, because she had required translations for documents that were already in English. 
The record does not support the Petitioner's contention. His submissions contain a number of 
foreign language documents, including those related to: ( 1) projects in which he was involved, (2) 
his patents, (3) his research fellowships in Japan, and (4) his information posted on baike.baidu.com. 
On appeal, he presents additional evidence, including printouts from new.wanfangdata.com.cn; a list 
of what appears to be his articles, patents and publications; and a document about the "2017 
These documents either are in a foreign language or contain 
information in a foreign language. 
While the record includes English translations, some of them are not "full" and "complete" 
translations that satisfy the regulatory requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Specifically, some 
translations include ellipses, signifying omissions, and specify that they only translated "highlighted 
parts" of the foreign language documents. In addition, the documents concerning the Petitioner's 
research fellowships in Japan appear to be in Japanese. The certification of the translator indicates 
that he or she had "translat[ ed] the Chinese part of Japanese into English," but did not translate the 
Japanese portions of the documents. In light of these deficiencies, the foreign language documents 
and their partial translations are insufficient to establish the Petitioner's eligibility. We will discuss 
below the other documentation in the record. 
., 
.
Matter of J-L-
B. Initial Evidentiary Criteria2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. He has not made such a showing. His 
accomplishments include his receipt of the following: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) a First Prize 
a Second Prize 
two First Prize 
the "2006 
a First Prize 
certificates confirming the Petitioner's completion of academic studies; and 
a qualification certificate of registered environmental protection engineer from the 
Personnel Department of 
The Petitioner has offered letters from other scientists concerning these accomplishments. For 
example, in his November 2017 letter, of 
states that the Petitioner's awards and honors "are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field" because "[ m ]any of them were from national 
government and professional organizations directly." He claims, "[a]s far as [he] know[s], [the 
award from the is the highest honor for a university researcher in the entire 
country," the "is one of the largest national 
professional associations in the industry," and the publication _______ is "a 
journal of national and international impact in the field." 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a one-time achievement , that is a 
major, internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will discuss the evidence concerning the seven 
criteria that he claims to meet. 
4 
.
Matter of J-L-
of the _ offers similar opinions, claiming that the 
Petitioner has "received many nationally and internationally recognized honors and awards." 
of maintains that the Petitioner's 
award from the "is considered the highest honor for academic researchers in 
the entire country," and _ of _____ in Ireland, indicates 
that the Petitioner's awards are "major national awards." 
These letters, however, are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has received qualifying awards 
or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Specifically, while several individuals claim that the 
Petitioner's award from the ___ is the highest honor a university researcher could 
receive in China, neither they nor the Petitioner have explained the bases of, or pointed to documents 
in the record that support, this conclusion. While the award certificate states that it is to recognize 
"major contributions in furthering advancement of science and technology," the record lacks 
independent and credible evidence, such as reports from national or international publications 
discussing the level of recognition that the award enjoys in the field of environmental engineering. 
The record also does not specify the nomination or selection process or criteria for the award. 
In addition, information about an issuing entity's prominence in a field, without more, is insufficient 
to confirm that all awards from that organization are nationally or internationally recognized. For 
example, while the is a national governmental agency, the Petitioner has not 
shown that all its awards are nationally recognized for excellence in environmental engineering. 
Similarly, while the and the editorial board of 
might have certain level of impact in the field, without specific 
documentation about their awards, the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's awards 
from those entities are qualifying under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner offered an online printout 
from the formerly known as the 
This document discusses the organization's 
activities, referencing that it "organize[s] award programs," but does not provide any details about 
the Petitioner's award or establish that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of 
environmental engineering. 
With regard to the other awards and prizes, the Petitioner has not provided specific evidence about 
them or documentation that confirms that they are recognized nationally or internationally in the 
field. Likewise, his teaching awards, academic successes, research fellowships, and qualifications as 
an environmental protection engineer might illustrate that he has the necessary knowledge and 
experience to be a productive researcher , but are not tantamount to his receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of environmental engineering. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
5 
..
Matter of J-L-
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which class(fication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the associations in which he is a member 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner has not made such a showing. The 
record includes the following evidence concerning this criterion: 
(1) a certificate of appointment, appointing the Petitioner to be a member of the 
(2) a certificate, indicating that the Petitioner was elected to be a member of the 
(3) a certificate of appointment, appointing the Petitioner to be a member of the 
(4) certificates, noting that the Petitioner would serve as a member of the 
The record includes letters concerning these associations. For example, provides in his 
November 2017 letter that the organizations in which the Petitioner is member "are among the most 
prestigious in the field" and have "many national and international experts among its members." 
further claims that "only those who have made outstanding achievements are elected to 
[the] national committees." 
In his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner presented a letter from 
The letter, which is not signed and its author is not identified, 
claims that the Petitioner is a member of "national committees serving as the governing bodies of the 
larger organizations" and that "their memberships require outstanding achievements as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field." The letter states that "the individuals who 
review prospective me~bers' applications are recognized as national or international experts in their 
discipline s or fields." 
While these letters include the exact regulatory language concerning this criterion, they do not point 
to any evidence in the record that substantiates their conclusory statements. The record lacks official 
documents from the and the 
such as their constitutions, bylaws, or other documents that set forth the processes and 
criteria under which they select members or appoint them to committees. Without additional 
6 
.
Matter of J-L-
corroboration, statements from the Petitioner and his references that are not substantiated by 
independent and credible evidence are insufficient to demonstrate that these associations require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submits partially translated documents as evidence that he meets this criterion. As 
discussed, partially translated documents do not meet the regulatory requirements under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3), and are insufficient to establish his eligibility for the classification. Even if we were 
to consider these documents, we would not find that they satisfy this criterion. Specifically, the 
partially translated documents appear to be three published articles that the Petitioner had authored, 
and each article includes the same, one sentence description of him. He has not shown that one 
sentence constitutes "published material about him ... relating to [his] work," as required under the 
regulation. Even if it did, the documents do not indicate who had authored the sentence, as the 
criterion specifically requires such information. If the Petitioner had authored the description, then 
he has not demonstrated that such self-promotional material satisfies 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record also includes several printouts showing that websites have posted the Petitioner's 
information. The Petitioner, however, has not established that these websites constitute 
"professional or major trade publications or other major media." In addition, the record lacks 
information about "the title, date, and author of the material," as required under the regulation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specffication for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must offer evidence that he has actually judged the work of 
others, not merely that he has been invited to do so. The Petitioner maintains in his August 2016 
statement that he has "judged the work of others' [sic] in the field nearly 100 times for the 
provincial level governments tanging from 
and various industries." as well as 
and 
The Petitioner has offered evidence showing that he was appointed to be the "Deputy Director of the 
Qualification Evaluation Committee for Senior Professional Positions in 
a "Beijing Bid Evaluation Expert" for the 
and an "Expert Judge of __ ~~--~-~-----~ 
., 
.
Matter of J-L-
He has also presented additional documentation, showing that he was 
appointed as an editor or an expert for a number of entities. 
According to the Petitioner "has not only been 
invited to but has actually participated in judging the work of others in the field," and completes "[ a] 
large number of judging duties ... on a regular basis." The record includes reference letters that 
offer similar statements, but they do not point to evidence that substantiates the claims. 
The record lacks evidence of the Petitioner's actual participation as a judge. For example, while he 
claims to be an editor for a number of journals, he has not offered evidence that he has reviewed or 
edited any manuscripts for the publications. Similarly, although he has been named an expert by 
some organizations, he has not submitted documentation relating to the specific duties he has 
performed or confirming that the duties involved judging another scientist's work. Likewise, he has 
not presented statements from any entities that appointed him as an editor or expert that detail the 
work he has completed or explain if his work involved his evaluation of another's work. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts: "It is ludicrous for the [Director] to think that a person would refuse to 
perform such duties assigned by the national and local government and reject such assignment of 
honor." Notwithstanding this statement, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish he satisfies this 
criterion, which requires evidence of actual participation as a judge. See section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § 1361. Without additional evidence that credibly illustrates his activities after the 
appointments, he has not established that he has actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others. Accordingly, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of environmental engineering. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his research findings or original 
methods or processes have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based on his scholarly articles, books, conference 
presentations, research projects, inventions, and reference letters from other scientists. 
The record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. Although he 
asserts that the publication of his research is evidence of its significance , the record does not 
sufficiently demonstrate that his written work has been considered of major significance in the field. 
He indicates that his findings have been published in Japanese , English, and Chinese, and that they 
"have received more widespread recognition for their originality and significance , and reached a 
much wider audience than those of others in the field published or presented in more limited ways." 
According to printouts from google.com , which the Petitioner offers on appeal, his 1998 article 
has been cited 58 times. 
.
Matter of J-L-
He has not presented additional information on whether his other written work has received any 
citation or how many it has garnered. He has therefore not shown that the level of interest other 
scientists have taken to his work -as illustrated, in part, by the number of citations his work has 
received -supports a finding that he has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
While the reference letters discuss the Petitioner's research and articles, and note generally that his 
work has influenced the field, they do not explain how specifically the work has impacted the field 
in a major or significant way, consistent with a finding of"contributions of major significance." For 
example, , states that the Petitioner "made innovative approaches" and that scientists 
"have applied the [Petitioner's] process to real wastewater treatment in China with great success." 
He also states that the Petitioner "broke new grounds," made "major contributions to [the field's] 
understanding of the key environmental issues involved," and "helped many scientists around the 
world ... in [their] work." provides that the Petitioner's work "demonstrate[s] the 
extraordinary originality and major significance of [his] contributions to the filed, as well as the high 
caliber of expertise he possesses." also indicates that the Petitioner's findings "are 
bound to be far reaching." opines that the Petitioner has "been very productive and 
successful as born [sic] out by his impressive publication record and the awards and honors he has 
won." These letters show that the Petitioner's work has had some impact, which might one day be at 
a higher level, but they are insufficient to confirm that the impact has already risen to the level of 
"major significance." Although the Petitioner has also received awards for his work, the record does 
not specify the award issuing entities' selection process or criteria, or otherwise confirm the impact 
of the work to the field as a whole. 
Similarly, several reference letters provide that the Petitioner has been invited to present his findings 
at conferences. The letters, however, do not explain how his presentation and conference activities 
have impacted or influenced the field as a whole. Participation in a conference demonstrates that his 
findings were shared with others, but being selected to present, without more, is not indicative of the 
major significance of his contributions. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under this 
criterion absent evidence that they were of"major significance." Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 
1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he has received funding, 
including from governmental agencies and to conduct his research. An award 
of grants or funding signifies that the award issuing organization considers the research, as proposed, 
to have certain level of importance. But to demonstrate that the Petitioner has met this criterion, he 
must offer evidence that after the completion of the study, or the publication or presentation of the 
findings, the reaction to his work confirms that it has remarkably impacted or influenced the field as 
a whole. He has not submitted such evidence. Every research adds information to the pool of 
knowledge in some way for it to be accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every 
finding that broadens knowledge in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific contribution of 
major significance in that field. 
9 
.
Matter of J-L-
The record also includes evidence that the Petitioner has received patent certificates of invention that 
named him as the inventor. provides that the Petitioner has "at least 32 ... patents 
... range from devices, equipment, facilities, process, to methods, and technologies on prevention 
and mitigation of pollution in water and sludge for environmental protection." Although the patents 
show the originality of the Petitioner's work, without evidence that the invention or innovation has 
been widely used or adopted in the field, or have otherwise influenced the field in a significant way, 
the patents do not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner has submitted reference letters, including two from August 
2016 letter contains multiple passages regarding the Petitioner's contributions to the field that are 
virtually identical to sections in the Petitioner's own August 2016 statement. This raises concerns 
over the letter's authenticity and the source of its contents. For example, claims in his 
August 2016 letter: 
... For decades, [the Petitioner] has led the successful completion of over 40 major 
research projects funded by the government at the national, ministerial and provincial 
levels .... 
. . . [H]is research findings have been selected for publication or presentation in over 
190 journal articles and conference papers, and 9 books, which include monographs, 
handbooks, government industry standard guidelines, and textbooks, and some of 
which won top awards. In addition, [the Petitioner] has made a large number of 
inventions and innovations as demonstrated in his being listed as the first named 
inventor on over 30 patent certifications. The original nature and major significance 
of his scientific contributions are truly indisputable. 
The Petitioner states in his statement: 
... Over the years, I have completed over 40 major research projects funded by the 
government at the national, ministerial and provincial levels . . . . Many of my 
research findings have been selected for publication or presentation, resulting in over 
190 journal articles and conference papers, and 9 books. They include monographs, 
handbooks, government industry standard guidelines, and textbooks, as well as 
award-winning publications. In addition, I have made a large number of inventions 
and innovations, and is [sic] the first named inventor on over 30 patents, making the 
original nature and major significance of my scientific contributions indisputable . 
The similarities between these documents do not support a finding that letter reflects his 
independent observations, or his informed and unbiased opinion, of the Petitioner's 
accomplishments. Regardless , the documents in the record, including those not specifically 
mentioned, primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner 's status in the field without providing 
specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters 
that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already 
10 
.
Matter of J-L-
influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 
1036. Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. United States 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this finding 
because it confirms that he has authored scholarly articles, including 
-.. ~· ~ 
which are published in professional publications Journal 
of Residuals Science and Technology and Biochemical Engineering Journal, respectively. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must offer evidence that he has performed in a leading or 
critical role for qualifying organizations or establishments. For a leading role, he must show that he 
is or was a leader.3 For a critical role, he must demonstrate that he has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not his 
title of the role, but his performance in the role that determines if it is or was critical. 
The Petitioner has indicated that he has held the following titles and positions: 
(1) the Deputy Editor-in-Chief of a chapter in 
(2) an editorial board member for 
(3) an Expert of the 
(4) a Technology Expert of the 
J See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI /-/4 10 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/defau It/ft les/U SC I S/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-ev idence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
11 
.
Matter of J-L-
(5) a member "of the 
(6) a professor, supervisor of Ph.D. students, and deputy department chair for the 
(7) a research fellow at 
(8) an executive for 
While the Petitioner has offered evidence of his association with the above referenced entities, he 
has not presented sufficient evidence demonstrating that he satisfies this criterion. For most of the 
listed titles and roles, the record lacks sufficient evidence detailing the specific duties that he has 
performed. Without additional corroboration confirming his work and impact on the organizations, 
he cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements by offering conclusory statements that he meets the 
criterion. 
The Petitioner has offered some information about his role as a supervisor of Ph.D. students for the 
claiming that he has "supervised over 50 candidates for the 
doctoral and master's degrees, and over 40 of them have received their degrees." Some of his 
references have provided the same information in their letters, but have not specified the basis of 
their knowledge. The record lacks sufficient evidence detailing what the Petitioner had done as a 
supervisor of students, including his level of involvement, and how his work was critical to the 
university as a whole. 
Moreover, while the record shows that the Petitioner was a research fellow for two universities in 
Japan, it is insufficient to confirm that he was either a leader for the universities or that his work was 
critical to the universities. The Petitioner has also stated that he "played the leading or most critical 
role or both in ... projects [that led to publication of articles or presentation of findings] in 
comparison to others in the same research group." He, however, has not shown that "projects" 
constitute "organizations or establishments," as specified in the criterion. 
Furthermore, the record contains insufficient evidence showing that some of the entities for which 
the Petitioner claims to have performed a qualifying role have a distinguished reputation. For 
example, evidence that studies had led to publication of scholarly articles or periodicals that had 
published articles, without documentation of the studies and periodicals' standing in the field, is 
insufficient to show they have a distinguished reputation. Similarly, while the Petitioner is an 
executive at 
and has presented information about the companies and their executives, the 
record does not include sufficient documentation , such as independent media reports, confirming 
that they have a distinguished reputation. Accordingly , the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
12 
Matter of J-L-
C. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he has presented evidence concerning "two comparable 
categories." He, however, does not specify what documentation in the record falls under these "two 
comparable categories." Regardless, the regulation allows for the submission of comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
Petitioner's occupation. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.l, supra, at 12. He, 
however, has not demonstrated that the criteria do not readily apply to his intended occupation as the 
chief consultant for an environmental engineering firm. In fact, on appeal, he claims that he has met 
seven of the ten criteria. As such, the Petitioner has not established that he may submit comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-L-, ID# 1856846 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
13 MATTER OF A-L-O-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a multilingual voice over artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
..
Matter of A-L-O-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance , probative value, and credibility , both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a multilingual voice over artist. As he has not received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Acting Director found that the Petitioner 
had not met any of the following six criteria raised by the Petitioner: awards, published material, 
display, leading or critical role, high salary, and commercial success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , 
(iii), (vii), (viii), (ix), and (x), respectively. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
criteria for awards, published material, leading or critical role, and high salary. Upon reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt <f lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or award~.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner had not established that he met this criterion because he 
was not named as a recipient of the awards for the film or advertising projects in which he played a 
role. The record contains documentation about the award at the 2012 
with evidence demonstrating that he was listed among the 
creative team members credited in the campaign. The record reflects that the 
won the award for the 
, co-chief executive officer and executive creative director for Mexico, 
which oversaw the campaign , states that the Petitioner 's talents helped the organization win multiple 
awards, including the ____ award in 2012. ____ states,'' -~- 1s 
2 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
the world's biggest annual awards show and festival for professionals m the creative 
communications industry." 
In a letter from , the creative director for during the 
campaign, she states that she knew she needed to request the Petitioner for the voiceover and 
original music for the campaign. She indicates, "[The Petitioner] was an integral part of this creative 
team and without his participation and role in this project, we may not have receive the multiple 
international awards and accolades to this campaign." We find that the record indicates that the 
Petitioner's work was sufficiently tied to the success of the overall production for him to be 
considered a recipient of this award. The record contains media coverage pertaining to the 
establishing that this represents a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the.field.for which class(fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains the transcript of the in which the Petitioner was interviewed 
as a guest on the program. However, according to a letter from the producer and 
director of the Petitioner was not interviewed until November 2017, and the 
interviews would not be published until January 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing 
and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Thus, the Petitioner cannot establish 
eligibility with the interviews that were published after the filing of the instant petition. 
The record contains an article published on the website Style by Shock Visual entitled, 
[the Petitioner]" about his work as a voice over artist 
and musician. The record also contains articles about the Petitioner published in EstiloDF as well as 
on ovaciones.com and informate.com. While these articles are about the Petitioner and his work in 
the field, the Petitioner has not established that they are professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. The record does not contain evidence regarding the target audience or the 
circulation details for these publications. While the Petitioner notes that his own website averages 
7,469 hits per month, he has not established that the material on his website constitutes published 
material about him relating to his work in the field in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
3 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader.1 If a critical 
role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may 
be considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It 
is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather her performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has performed a critical role for multiple international 
brands. He states in the appeal brief that "a voice-over artist is critical to the success of an 
advertising or public service campaign." states that during his tenure at he 
has worked with the Petitioner in multiple campaigns for 
among others." He indicates that 
production services have helped with multiple awards for the his voice over talent and music 
and campaigns. 
The Petitioner contends that his work on the campaign represents a critical role, noting in 
his brief that articles in the record demonstrate that not only did this campaign win awards but "also 
helped champion the cause of encouraging employment of many disabled Mexicans in Mexico." 
The Petitioner does not provide evidence from the demonstrating that his role 
was critical to the activities of that organization or that it has a distinguished reputation. Rather, he 
provides evidence from the advertising company that ran the campaign. 
states, "[ the Petitioner] was an integral part of this creative team and without his participation and 
role in this project, we may not [have] received the multiple international awards and accolades 
attached to this campaign." Likewise, states that "the participation of [the Petitioner] 
was fundamental because our client was able to reach its goal, which was to raise 
employment offers for people with disabilities." The record does not demonstrate that the 
executives at can attest to the significance of the Petitioner's impact on its clients' activities. 
Similarly, with respect to the campaign, the record does not establish how the Petitioner's role 
was of significant importance to its company. 
The Petitioner claims that he has provided leading or critical roles to other companies. 
states in his letter that in Mexico the Petitioner "is the voice of 
among others." He then adds that in the United States, the Petitioner "is the main 
voice of brands like and the state of California." In a letter from 
founder of a voice over agency called , she states that the Petitioner 
"has been the institutional voice of in Mexico for six years." We note that the record 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1. Eru/11otiun of EviJence S11h111itted 1vith Certain Form 1-/-10 
Petitions; Revision.1 · IO the 11dj11Jicator's Field Alanual {AFMJ Clwpter 22.}, .,/f,',\-1 Update ADI/-/./ 10 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/defau lt/fi les/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- 140-evidenc e-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
2 Id. 
4 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
contains a receipt for voice over services the Petitioner provided to but he has not 
shown that the amount he was paid for these services is an indication that his work was critical to the 
organization. He has not provided other evidence from demonstrating how his work 
has impacted the company to show that it was of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization's activities. 
The record contains a letter from who partnered with m 
to connect individuals at all levels of voice talent with the "industry's leading coaches." She 
indicates that the Petitioner "was and still is, exactly the kind of coach we require in this new project 
and he has certainly proven to be an incredible asset to the organization." While and 
speak highly of the Petitioner's expertise as a voice over artist, this evidence tends to show 
that was a featured guest on this program rather than a regular contributor. The Petitioner has not 
shown how his contributions have been of significant importance to the organization's activities, or 
that ____ is an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also references a letter by , a Latin America Spanish voice over artist 
and Director of He states that she selected him to be one of ten male voices in .a voice 
bank for However, her letter does not indicate that he is a part of or what his role 
entails or how his work has impacted the organization's activities. Additionally, the record does not 
demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
In a letter from the director of show production with the and director 
of media at he states that the Petitioner has completed all of his Spanish translation 
and voiceover work for all of his projects. He states, "My clients love him, his work is top notch, 
and we will continue to request his services for many years to come." While this shows that the 
Petitioner provides high quality services to these companies, the record does not demonstrate that his 
translation or voice over services are of significant importance to the outcome of these 
organizations' activities. The record does not demonstrate how much of a presence these companies 
have in Spanish speaking countries and how the Petitioner's services contribute to this aspect of 
these companies. In addition, the record does not demonstrate that or 
are organizations with distinguished reputations. Therefore, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high 
remuneration.for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The record contains documents from the Petitioner's accountant attesting to his yearly salary for 
2013 through 2016. The record lacks evidence corroborating the Petitioner's income. The record 
contains samples of invoices of some voice over services he provided, but the Petitioner has not 
shown the complete extent of his salary each year. Even if the record did contain this evidence, or 
additional corroborating details from his accountant, this amounts to salaries of $82,710 for 2013, 
$93,135 for 2014, $29,406 for 2015, and $61,898 for 2016. The Petitioner indicates that the voice 
actor website at gravyforthebrain.com states that the top ten percent of voice actors earn $90,000 and 
above. We note that this document is undated and does not explain the source of its information . 
Matter of A-L-O-
While the record contains documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor indicating that the top 
ten percent of actors earn over $100 per hour as of May 2016, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence of the sources of the Petitioner's annual salary in that year to use this benchmark to 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-L-O-, ID# 1846296 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-G-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN.3,2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
Tqe Petitioner seeks classification· as· an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 
U.S.C. §, 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the p~tition. Subsequently, the 
Director issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) the approval, advising the Petitioner that he did 
not satisfy the initial evidence requirement of presenting evidence of a one-time achievement that is 
a major, internationally recognized award, or documentation that met at least three of the ten criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). After reviewing the Petitioner's NOIR response, the 
Director revoked the approval of the petition, finding that it had been approved in error. 
On appeal, the Pe_titioner maintains that the Director erred, claiming that he meets five of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is eligible for the classification. He supports 
his appeal with additional documentation. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) . the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 In addition to the instant petition, the Petitioner has filed a second petition seeking classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. That second petition remains pending at the time of 
this decision. 
Maller of R-G-
acclaim and whose achievements have· been recognized m the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term ""extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small_ percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirement. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time _achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirement, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international accla}m and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percen~age at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 13-1-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be detern1ined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter <~(Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him [ or her] .... " 
In addition, the Board oflmmigration Appeals.has stated: 
[n Matter of £slime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of 
record at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would -.yarrant a 
denial of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of 
proof. The decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the 
2 
.
Matter of R-G-
time the decision is rendered, 'including any evidence or explanation submitted by the 
petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Maller of £slime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
l 987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Ho, 19 l&N Dec. at 590. The 
approval of a ·visa petition v~sts no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa 
petition is but a preliminary step in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by 
mere approval of the petition, entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Upon a review of all the documents in the record, we conclude that the Director properly revoked the 
approval of the petition, because the record does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies his initial 
evidence requirement. Specifically , he has not presented evidence ofhis one-time achievement that 
is a major, internationally recognized award, or documentation that satisfies at least three of the ten 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 2 
Documentation qlthe alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for ·which classffication is· 
sought. which require oulstanding achievements ql their members. as judged by recognized 
national or inlernalional experts in /heir disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he is a member of the 
He has submitted a certificate issued by the Chairman of the of the 
organization, indicating that he is "on state registration of masters and handicraftsmen." The record 
includes a letter from · the head of the association, stating that it "is open only to 
highly skilled masters who are among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the 
respective field of folk art." The letter provides that the Petitioner's membership was recommended 
by _______ and --·----~ 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. While . 
the letter from contains language that mirrors the regulation , neither 
nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim that the 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution , bylaws, or other official 
documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional evidence that 
accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection process, 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a one-time achievement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will discuss the evidence concerning the five criteria that he claims to meet. 
3 
.
· Maller <f R-G-
conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 
17j6, Inc. v. Uniled Stales All 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not 
accept prim~rily conclusory _statements). 
Moreover, although the record includes letters from and the individuals 
who purportedly recommended the Petitioner for membership in the the 
documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international experts in their 
fields. Other than the opening sentence, which provides the author's field of expertise, these two 
letters are identical, including the same wording when discussing the Petitioner's qualifications and 
achievements in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery . Based on the identical contents of these 
letters, the Petitioner has not shown that they reflect the authors' independent observations or that 
they confirm the authors' status as nationally or internationally recognized experts. While 
and resumes are in the record, the uncorroborated documents are insufficient to 
confirm the individuals are qualifying experts in their fields. Similarly, although 
claims that they are nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or 
offered sufficient evidence in support of his statement. 
Furthermore, the record includes inconsistent information relating to who had recommended the 
Petitioner for membership in the While provides that 
and recommended the Petitioner, a branch director of 
in Uzbekistan, indicates that it was who had recommended· him. The 
record contains inconsistent documentation relating to this criterion, which must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. The 
Petitioner has not done so here. Based on the above reasons, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence oft he alien ·s participation, either individually or on a panel. as a judge of the work <?f 
of hers in the same or an allied.field <?lspecUication for which clas.,·Uication is soitght. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this· finding. 
Specifically, according to a certificate from the of the 
of the Republic of Uzbekistan , the Petitioner was "a 
member of the jury and judged the work of other craftsmen to determine the winners" at the 2015 
exhibition held in Uzbekistan. The 
Petitioner has also submitted documentation confirming his participation as a judge in other events, 
including the 2014' ___ showcase. Accordingly, he has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of !he alien's original scient[flc. scholarly . artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions of mqjor sign[flcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3}(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he "has made a contribution of major significance to [the] field 
by virtue of his mastery of Uzbek traditional embroidery techniques and by adapt(ing] ancient 
4 
.
Maller of R-G-
embroidery techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." The record includes reference letters 
in support of this criterion. For example, letter states that the Petitioner's 
embroidery "is only slightly twisted, creating the impression of non-woven thread" and he "use[s] 
his innovative technique ... to achieve an unusual and attractive visual effect of creating an 
interplay of light and shine in his decorations that is both inspiring and uplifting." 
letter provides that the Petitioner has "made a contribution of major significance by virtue of his 
mastery of traditional embroidering techniques and their adaptation to contemporary materials and 
tastes." He further claims that the Petitioner's contributions "to the art of embroidery, decorative art, 
and cultural traditions of Uzbekistan are of major importance as the[y] have and will continue to 
influence the work of other artists" and that "[m]any of his unique creations have been displayed and 
sold at major exhibitions in Uzbekistan and Central Asia." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field; have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of m_ajor significance in the field. 
The record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss his work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and appreciated, they do 
not explain how specifically his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by ot_hers in the field. The 
documents in the record, including those not specifically mentioned, primarily contain attestations of 
the Petitione"r's status in the field without providing specific examples of how his contributions rise 
to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not 
explain how an individual's _ contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USC!S, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), afl'd 
in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc., 
745 F. Supp. at 17. Accordingly , the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the ·alien·.\' authorship . C?f scholarly articles in the field. in professional or mcy·or 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). \ . 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "published scholarly articles dedicated to the Uzbek 
traditional embroidery, its history and importance in Uzbek culture, in major media" and that he has 
"authored a treatise titled which 1s devoted to the history and technology· of 
embroidery in Uzbekistan." The record includes a book that lists the Petitioner as an 
editor. According to , the head of the publisher of the material, the 
Petitioner is also the author of the book and that the "[e]dition circulation is 1,000 copies." 
further states that the book "is devoted to the art of embroidery, its history and varieties" 
and that it "was distributed to regional libraries." The record includes evidence that the Petitioner 
has authored articles that are published in The Advice <~f Bukhara ·s Imam and Evening Bukhara. 
5 
.I 
Malter of R-G-
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he h~s not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. In general, scholarly articles report on original 
research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
express in the article.3 Usually, scholarly articles are written for learned persons in that field. In this 
case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that (which contains six pages) and the articles 
(which are each one page in length), without footnotes, endnotes, or bibliographies, qualify as 
scholarly. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. For example, he has offered a letter from the chief editor of Evening Bukhara, stating 
that the newspaper is "intended for wide general readership" and that "[t]he circulation of 
publication is 580 copies"; as well as a letter from the chief editor of The Advice cf Bukhara's Imam, 
indicating that the publication "has the circulation of 4,000 copies." The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that based <!n the circulation data, these two publications qualify as major me~ia. In 
addition, he has not presented adequate documentation confirming they constitute either professional 
or major trade publications . Based on the above reasons, the Petitioner has not met this criterion.4 
Evidence of-the display <?f the alien ·s work in the .field al artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this determination. 
Specifically , the Petitioner has offered a diploma from the Chairman of the 
of , Russia, stating that in 2009, _the Petitioner exhibited his "high quality 
products made of silk and of his handmade original"design jewelry" at the exhibition 
; as well-as documents from the . confirming that in 
2016, he displayed his silk embroidery at the festival. Accordingly, tl)e Petitioner has satisfied this 
criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at ~east three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits dete1mination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submilled with Certain Form /-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI /-/4 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis .gov/sites/default/fi les/U SC IS/La ws/Memoranda/i- I 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pd f. 
~ The record includes documentation of the Petitioner"s authorship of materials after the filing of this petiiion in August 
2016. Thls evldence, however, does not demonstrate his' eligibility because he must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the classification have been satisfied from the time of the tiling and continuing through adjudication . 
See 8 C.F.R. § l03.2(b)(I). · 
6 
Matter of R-G-
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
h~s long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matier <?( Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc._ Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(I )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R_. § 2045(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner ~as not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. -
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-G-, ID# 1856892 (AAO Jan. 3, 2019) 
..I 
I' 
"1 MATTER OF S-T-V-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a post-doctoral research associate at He received his Ph.D. in 
2015 from in Massachusetts and his M.D. from 
in 2001. As he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Acting Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but not for 
original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the criterion for original contributions of major significance. 
Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec(ficaNon for which class(fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion, noting that the Petitioner has conducted 
reviews for The American Journal of Medicine and the International Journal of STD & AIDS, which 
demonstrates that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
2 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
Evidence of the alien's original scientffic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Acting Director addressed the different facets of the Petitioner's research and held that the 
evidence in the record does not establish the major significance of his contributions. She noted that 
he is listed as the first author in 20 percent of his publications and concluded that a comparison of 
his citation history to those of other active expert researchers in the field does not establish that his 
publications are of major significance in the field. On appeal, after asserting that six of his 
publications are ranked in the top ten percent of publications in the field of clinical medicine, the 
Petitioner states that this criterion does not require a comparison to the citation levels of other 
leading experts in the field. 1 While we note that citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the 
Petitioner's work in the field, they do not, by themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the 
nature of that discussion or the impact of his work on the field to meet this criterion. That context 
must be provided by other evidence in the record. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "performed critical research on dietary perceptions and 
levels of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, a Hepatitis A outbreak in India, the prevalence and 
economic burden of rotavirus diarrhea, and trends in HIV prevalence, HIV risk factors, and 
nutritional status." He also states that he has conducted a post-marketing trial on the drug 
and two clinical trials to develop a rotavirus drug vaccine. Here, we will assess whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that these aspects of his research represent original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's research on vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, the record reflects that he 
has published articles on numerous topics associated with nutrition, but he has not shown how his 
research on these topics constitutes original contributions of major significance. In a letter from 
associate professor at she states that the Petitioner worked with 
other researchers at the university "to better understand the perceptions and motivations of dietary 
practices of the American population.'' She asserts, "While public health officials have known of 
1 The Petitioner submits an InCites citation rate chart, an updated Google Scholar report, and a Microsoft Research report 
regarding his citation history. We note that it is unclear upon what data the Microsoft Research report is based. 
3 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
vitamin D deficiency, [the Petitioner] is one of the few researchers in this area to present a realistic 
view of deficient omega-3 levels." She notes, "Although he has not yet shared the results of the 
following project, [his] work indicates that revisions are needed for omega-3 dosage 
recommendations and assists public officials in understanding the subpopulations most at risk of 
nutrient deficiencies." While we agree that this appears to be an original contribution, 
admission that this recommendation on omega-3 fatty acids has not yet been shared as of September 
2016 does not support a finding that this has had a major impact on the field as of the time of filing. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
a senior research scientist, references the Petitioner's investigation 
into a Hepatitis A outbreak in India. He states that the Petitioner "recognized a young child's 
jaundice and fever as symptoms of hepatitis A" while working at a research pediatric clinic in India. 
notes, "He went house to house to identify children under the age of IO with similar 
symptoms" and that after six months and having surveyed 965 children, he identified 26 children 
with jaundice. states that the Petitioner then tested drinking water "tracking the source 
of infection." He asserts that one of the greatest impacts of this "was his use of GIS [geographic 
information systems] mapping and analysis," noting that other researchers cited his use of spatial 
methods "for studying infectious disease outbreaks." We acknowledge the positive influence the 
Petitioner had in this community in discovering the Hepatitis A outbreak, but the record does not 
demonstrate that this amounts to contributions of major significance in the field as a whole. The 
Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his use of GIS mapping and analysis significantly 
influenced the field at large. 
The record contains an article on the Petitioner's rotavirus study that was published in the journal 
Vaccine entitled, ' ' Although the 
number of citations to this article shows that his research has received notable attention from the 
field, the supporting evidence in the record does not demonstrate that this research equates to 
original contributions of major significance in the field. In a letter from assistant 
professor at he states that he utilized the Petitioner's findings "in 
microsimulation models of the cost of treatment of rotavirus diarrhea." He indicates, "We found 
with the help of [the Petitioner's] work that rotavirus brings a markedly high economic burden, and 
we also uncovered that implementing a vaccine program to treat rotavirus both prevents deaths and 
reduces the financial burden of the disease." He adds, "The implementation of [the Petitioner's] 
work in my own was central to my project's success, and it proves that [his] work is greatly 
advancing the science of this area." further states that "authors from the 
in India adopted data from [the Petitioner's] paper ... to inform 
policymakers of the necessity to implement a rotavirus vaccine." While playing a role in informing 
policymakers is a step towards reducing the effects of the rotavirus diarrhea, the record does not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner's contributions to these other authors have been implemented by the 
government of India to establish that this is a contribution of major significance . 
1 a professor and scientist associated with 
indicates in his letter, "Although vaccines exist to protect children against rotavirus, it 
4 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
remains a far too common burden in countries such as India.'' states, "The 
disease burden of rotavirus was obvious, but [ the Petitioner] noticed that it was of extreme 
importance to understand the economic burden of the disease, especially in areas with limited 
resources." He then notes, "[The Petitioner's] study was the first of its kind to show the economic 
burden of rotavirus diarrhea in children, overall emphasizing the need for vaccines in India" which 
"prompted further studies using the same methodology" throughout India. The record does not 
demonstrate whether this research was implemented in the field. Although it is notable that his 
research led to other studies on this issue, the record does not demonstrate what impact the 
Petitioner's contributions had on the field overall. 
With respect to the Petitioner's research on HIV prevalence and risk factors, 
associate professor at states that "[the Petitioner] has revealed in his studies that 
American people, especially women, currently living with HIV have considerably poor nutritional 
health." He indicates that the Petitioner "has provided the field with useful insights into the 
nutritional status of people living with HIV, which is necessary as a basis for developing 
interventions to increase the health of these individuals." We note that the record does not 
demonstrate what impact these recommendations have had. "Contributions of major significance" 
means that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia. 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
134. 
The Petitioner further states that his role in conducting three clinical trials for the purpose of 
developing drugs or vaccines represents original contributions of major significance. He asserts that 
he conducted a post-marketing trial on the HIV therapy drug and two clinical trials to 
develop a rotavirus drug vaccine. He cites a document from the which 
states, "Clinical trials are research studies that explore whether a medical strategy, treatment, or 
device is safe and effective for humans," noting further that they "produce the best data available for 
health care decision making." The record contains a document from the clinicaltrials.gov website, 
listing a study on entitled, 
· in which the Petitioner is listed as the principal investigator. Although 
we note the Petitioner is listed as the principal investigator, he has not demonstrated how his role in 
this study impacted the field at large. The record contains an email from the senior 
drug safety specialist for a biopharmaceutical company that the Petitioner 
states developed references the Petitioner's article entitled, ' 
' and requests that he provide information regarding the side effects that two patients 
experienced from this study. The record does not demonstrate that the results of this study have 
been widely implemented or how the information requested by ___ led to improvements in 
the drug that impacted the field in a significant way. 
Regarding the two clinical trials to develop a rotavirus vaccine, the record reflects that these studies 
were published in 2014. We note that one of these studies received a notable amount of citations 
while the other study received much fewer. In the appeal brief, the Petitioner states that based on his 
findings, "the government of India decided to initiate an anti-rotavirus immunization program and 
5 
Matter of S-T-V-
published a government report to that effect." The evidence in the record does not support this 
assertion. He has not demonstrated the impact of his work on the field to meet this criterion. 
In summary, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions pertaining to 
research on the rotavirus vaccine, nutrition, or HIV represents original contributions of major 
significance in the field to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship qf scholarly articles in the field, in prqfessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in 
the following journals: The American Journal qf Clinical Nutrition, Journal qf Nutrition, Vaccine, 
and Clinical Infectious Diseases, among others. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-T-V-, ID# 1864483 (AAO Jan. 8, 2019) MATTER OF A-A-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral scholar and environmental sustainability fellow, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field 
through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as a visiting fellow and senior research scholar at 
in the field of life and 
environmental science.1 He states that his research is aimed at studying the "social aspects of 
science & technology in sustainable agriculture, renewable energy, climate change & health 
innovation in developing countries." Because he has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 The Petitioner has provided two CVs, indicating he was previously a research fellow at 
School of Government from 2014 until 2015, when he earned his master's degree in public policy, and a graduate 
student and research assistant at the from 2004 until 2007, when he earned his Ph.D. in 
biology. The record does not contain a copy of the Petitioner's degree certificates, but the CVs indicate, respectively , 
that his doctoral degree is in "Biological Sciences" and "Applied Toxicology ." 
2 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer 
reviewed manuscripts for several journals.2 Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below: the awards 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the membership in associations criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the original 
contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He 
further argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. We have reviewed all of the 
evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion, based upon his receipt of a doctoral student 
award by the a postdoctoral fellowship, and several other student 
awards and research grants during the course of his academic career. Initially, the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate reflecting that awarded him a student prize for the best poster 
presentation at its annual conference in 2008. His letter indicated that he presented his final doctoral 
research at the conference, attended by "many international students including from Europe and 
America." Within his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he offered a letter from 
president who explains that the prize is "judged by a panel of senior, eminent 
toxicologists from the for the "originality and quality of the work" and "clarity of the 
presentation." He states that "[a]ny student who is a member of the and presenting a poster at 
the annual congress" is eligible for consideration," that "draws its membership mainly from the 
UK," and that any prize awarded by would be "well regarded globally.'' 
2 For example, the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts for Food Policy and Biological Conservation. 
3 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
Although the Petitioner demonstrated his receipt of the aforementioned prize from he did not 
establish that it meets the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
award, which the record indicates is limited to students rather than open to established professionals, 
is nationally or internationally recognized as an award or prize for excellence in the field.3 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not establish that his postdoctoral fellowship with the 
grant, or other 
competitive research grants and student awards are tantamount to nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field, consistent with this regulatory criterion. On 
appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter from program manager for who 
confirms that between 2010 and 2012 he was a postdoctoral fellow, and describes the 
program as "highly competitive" and providing "promising, highly qualified young researchers" the 
opportunity to conduct advanced research at Japanese universities and other research institutions. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he received a 
and research funding from the The 
record does not contain corroborating documentation of these items of funding. Regardless, only 
other students -not recognized experts in the field -compete for such funding. The Petitioner has not 
shown that receiving the noted funding for his research and academic training constitutes receipt of a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal for the first time, the Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on his 
"membership as an advisory board member" with the 
in February 2013, and the 
since October 2017.4 
The Petitioner's CV indicates that he was one of ten experts invited by "to establish [the] 
biotechnology centre of excellence in Africa," also referred to in the record as the 
at the He provides a notice for the 2013 
inaugural meeting of the ___ International Scientific Advisory Board, and a 2014 job posting 
' See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/politymanual/HTML/PolicyManual .html. 
4 Although he also asserts that he is "a member of the most recognized and reputable organization in the world, the 
United Nations," we take notice of the fact that both the United Nations and confer membership on states, not 
persons. 
4 
.
.
Matter of A-A-A-
for executive director of However, the Petitioner has not documented his membership in 
or its International Scientific Advisory Board. Regardless, the job posting for the 
executive director lists certain educational and professional requirements, such as a doctoral 
degree, and five years of postdoctoral experience in biotechnology. Such requirements are not 
"outstanding achievements" in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's CV indicates that since October 2017 he has been an advisor with 
"The Expert Advisory Group-Support of advisory and Capacity-building Services to 
The record does not contain information pertaining to the 
membership requirements of the claimed advisory group, or evidence establishing his 
membership in the group at the time of filing the petition on May 10, 2017.5 Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field.for which class(fication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date. and author qf the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he is "continually and currently being relied upon" and "quoted as an 
expert" in published materials in the field. He submitted a 2013 publicity release in SciDev.Net 
titled " pertaining to his study of GMO 
regulation in Africa that would soon be published in Food Policy. The publicity release summarizes 
some of the findings of that study and includes quotes from the Petitioner.6 On appeal, he offers a 
letter from Ben Deighton, managing editor of SciDev.Net, stating that the website published his 
article I in 2011 and quoted him as an expert in two 
other news items published in 2013. Mr. Deighton describes SciDev.Net as "the world's leading 
online source of news about science, technology and innovation for development," reaching "100 
million people" annually. 
The aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner, therefore, they do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, the record does not 
contain probative evidence showing that the submitted article appeared in major media. Self­
promotional material is not sufficient to demonstrate a publication's status as major media. See 
5 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § l 03.2(b)( l ). 
6 The Petitioner also offered an article published in 2017 in Nature Climate Change, briefly describing his study of 
climate change adaptation in Africa in Ecological Economics. However, this article was published after the date the 
petition was filed on May I 0, 2017. As discussed previously, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudicatio n. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO (FMOX), 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. Jul. 6, 2007), 
ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680, 681 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that this office did not have to rely on a 
petitioner's unsubstantiated assertions). The Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) at Chapter 
22.2(i)(l)(A) discusses that to demonstrate a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media, a petitioner should "identify the [publication's] circulation (on­
line or in print) and intended audience of the publication, as well as the title, date and author of the 
material."7 The Petitioner did not submit material establishing the circulation statistics for the 
website SciDev.Net website, nor did he provide other circulation data to compare with those of this 
publication. Without additional corroboration, the Petitioner has not illustrated that the article was 
published in major media.8 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner contends that he "has completed original research and is a 
renowned expert within his field" who "has the support of other well-known and respected 
professionals who have commented on his work and abilities." Although he provided evidence 
reflecting the originality of his work through co-authored publications reporting his findings, he has 
not demonstrated that the overall field views his research and work as being majorly significant. 
The Petitioner argues that he "has more than 375 citations to his work," and that the top-cited article, 
published in Energy Policy in 2013, "has been cited 66 times alone." He also emphasizes that 
Energy Policy "is a high-impact journal," and that Food Policy, in which he was published in 2013, 
"is the top journal worldwide by simple impact factor in the field of agricultural economics."9 The 
comparative ranking of a paper's citation rate does not automatically establish it as a majorly 
significant contribution to the field. Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a 
petitioner has shown that his individual articles, factoring in citations and other corroborating 
evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
7 Available at https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/ocomm/ilink/0-0-0-6423.html#0-0-0-417, accessed on January 7, 2019. 
8 The Petitioner has not claimed, or provided evidence. showing that the article appeared in professional or major trade publications. 
9 The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting that he published approximately seventeen journal articles and three book 
chapters. In addition, he provided several materials published after the date the petition was tiled on May I 0, 2017, 
including articles published in the journals Nature Biotechnology, Ecological Economics, World Development, and the 
cover page of a book he co-edited, titled ' -~- --~- Further, he 
submitted evidence pertaining to a book he is co-editing which has not yet been published, tentatively titled 
As mentioned previously, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate his eligibility at the time of filing. Accordingly, we will not consider these additional items. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Furthermore, a publication that 
bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does 
not, however, demonstrate the influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's 
research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Although his citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the number of citations to his individual papers demonstrate their 
"major significance." For instance, he has not submitted samples of other articles that cited to his 
work, to distinguish his written work from the other articles cited, or other evidence showing the 
significance of his research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 10 Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that his citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that he "has been a contributor and a relied upon member of various 
United Nations groups, projects, and initiatives." The record indicates that he contributed the 
findings of his postdoctoral research with the == to the 2015 and 2016 editions of the 
which invited scientists and 
researchers "to submit science briefs that highlight research findings or solutions relating to 
sustainable development." The evidence shows that the Petitioner's co-authored article, 
was of 1 of 187 science policy briefs 
published in the 2015 edition and 1 of 97 briefs published in the 2016 edition. Although those 
reports contain his published article, he did not establish that inclusion in the publications 
demonstrates that his research paper is considered to be of major significance to the field. The 
Petitioner did not provide evidence, for example, showing that the ___ article led to 
widespread coverage of and interest in his work and research. 
Further, while the Petitioner notes that the record contains recommendation letters praising him for 
his original contributions, the letters do not demonstrate their major significance to the field. The 
letters briefly recount his research and findings, indicate their publication in at least one high-impact 
journal, and note their presentation at international conferences and conventions. Although they 
detail the novelty of the Petitioner's research, the authors do not contend that its impact on the field 
rises to the level required by this criterion, or otherwise provide specific examples of contributions 
that are indicative of major significance. For instance, his research colleagues and co-authors 
, at and formerly at described his 
work examining the capacity and financing for climate change adaptation and mitigation in Africa, 
but they did not explain the significance of his research to the field or how it has greatly influenced 
other researchers or scientists . Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 
1115. Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). For the reasons discussed above, considered both 
individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner has published scholarly articles in the Journal of 
Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Journal of Environmental Management, Journal of 
Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, African Journal of Biotechnology, and in the journals Food 
Policy, Energy Policy, Technology in Society, Biodiversity and Conservation, and Environmental 
Science & Policy. We find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role .fcJr organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal for the first time, the Petitioner claims that he satisfies this criterion based on his "advisory 
roles" with in February 2013, and the since October 2017, as well as his participation 
in international conferences, multi-year research studies, and book projects. The scope of this 
evidentiary criterion focuses on the relative importance of the Petitioner's role for distinguished 
organizations. In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in 
which the petitioner contributed in a way that that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities.11 The Petitioner has not documented his role with 
International Scientific Advisory Board, or provided an organizational chart or other evidence 
to distinguish his role from that of other advisors, and demonstrate that he performed in a leading or 
critical role for 
Regarding the , the Petitioner's CV indicates that since October 2017 he has been an advisor with 
'The Expert A ..... ,.-.,,v,J Group-Support of advisory and Capacity-building Services to 
The Petitioner has not provided evidence of his role with 
, and his CV indicates he performed in this role after the date the petition was filed on 
May 10, 2017. As we stated previously, the Petitioner must demonstrate his eligibility at the time of 
filing, therefore , we will not consider this evidence in determining whether he satisfies this criterion. 
Finally, with regard to the additional roles that the Petitioner references , the plain language of the 
regulation requires that the leading or critical role be "for organizations or establishments. " The 
Petitioner did not identify organizations or establishments for which he played a critical role through 
his conferences , research studies, and book projects. Accordingly , the Petitioner did not establish 
that he satisfies this criterion. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at I 0. 
8 
Matter of A-A-A-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter qf A-A-A-, ID# 1883186 (AAO Jan. 9, 2019) 
9 MATTER OF L-W-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non~Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 17, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)( I )(A), 8 U.S.C. § I I 53(b)(I )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal; the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief arguing that she meets at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences. arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have beei1 recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the_ United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implem~nting regulation 
.
Matter of L-W-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
rec1uirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
· national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very. top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v . Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine ;;~ach piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Maller o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANAL YSJS 
The Petitioner indicates that she is currently employed as a senior correspondent for 
Because she has not indicated or established that she 
has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory cri_teria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Petitioner only fulfilled one of the initial evidentiary criteria, original contributions of major 
significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four 
additional criteria, discussed . below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria. · 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or inlernationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor . 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(i). 
I 
The Petitioner contends that she meets this criterion based on her receiving a "1996 
A ward" from the and an 
2 
.
Maller <?[ L-W-. 
A ward" from the .1 In regards to 
the "1996 Award," the Petitioner submitted a letter from protessor at 
, who claimed that the award "is [a] national l~vel award and 
the most significant award in news field." also asserted that the 
Award in Chin.a is the same level award as Pulitzer Prize in the U.S." In addition, the 
Petitioner provided a certificate from proclaiming that its award "is the highest-ranked 
award for national television broadcasting stations." However, · and did not 
provide detailed or corroborating information to support their opinions. For example, 
did not explain why he believed it to be "the most significant award" or why he compared it 
to a Pulitzer Prize. · 
On appeal, the Petitioner offers screenshots from 945theanswer.com and seattletimes.com 
highlighting that is "government-backed" and a "state-sanctioned umbrella group of official 
industry organizations." These ·documents do not relate the Petitioner's award, nor do they 
demonstrate the nature of the award or the national or international recognition it receives-2 
Moreover, she contends that a television show, . also won a Award" in 
1996, which was aired on the widely watched Central Committee Television (CCTV). Thus,. she 
posits that "it stands to reason that if a program of such caliber as had garnered the 
1996 · Award, then it must speak volume about the prestige of the Award and the 
merits of [her] TV program." The Petitioner did not show how another television program that 
received a Award" demonstrates that the award is nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. The issue here is not the reputation or popularity of another 
television program or station, but rather the national or international recognition of the prize or 
award by the field. Therefore, the fact that bes.towed a Award" 
does not establish that the award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field. 
Regarding the Award," the Petitioner makes the same arguments 
relating to "back[ing] by the Chinese government." In addition, she refers to previously 
submitted screenshots that indicate "is a top-grade national news association which is 
compose[d] of the production and industry report of the heads of various departments of the central 
government," "set up in late December to keep an _eye on and reduce the huge issue of media 
plagiarism within China," and "organize[s] training courses for reporters and editors of industry 
media." Again, she did not demonstrate that these governmenf-authorized awards are nationally·or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
1 Although the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based on receiving the "1996 
Award,'" she does not continue to do so on appeal. nor does the reflect that this award qualit'ics her eligibility for 
this criterion. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
.
Maller of L-W-
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material abolll the alien in professional or mc{jor trade publications or other major 
media . .relating to the alien ·s work in the field.for which classUication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the Ii/le. date. and author (~lthe material. and any'necessc11y 1ransla1ion. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on three articles: 
(book.sina.com), 
(ifeng.com), and 
(nytimes.com). The record, howeyer, does not reflect 
published material about the Petitioner.3 Instead. the first two articles are identical reviews and 
summaries for the book, · .4 Although the articles mention the Petitioner 
and describe her occupation and education credentials, they are not about her, but about her novel. 
Similarly, the nytimes.com article is about a surge in China's maternal mortality rate. While the 
article references the Petitioner's book and provides quotations, it is not about the Petitioner. 
Articles tlJat are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See. e.g .. Negro­
Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-R.J.J at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that 
articles regarding a show are not about the actor). For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s original scientffic. scholarly, artislic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions of majc~r signfficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have b~en widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, 
the record does not reflect that she has made original contributions of major significance in the 
journalism field. 
In making his determination, the Director cited to portions of recommendation letters from 
and a researcher at the 
Specifically, commented on the Petitioner's 
professional traits, such as· "she does not constrict to the traditional confines of her beat," and she 
"possesses a clear sense of purpose, a breath of knowledge on her beat, and a wide range of 
resources." Moreover, claimed that the Petitioner's "journalistic accomplishments 
are especially outstanding given the sensitive nature of China's birth policies" and "is truly an 
exemplary figure to other journalists and news reporters." Having a diverse skill set, however, is not 
~ See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1. supra, at 7. 
~ Both articles appear to be the same but with similar English language translations. 
4 
. .
Matter of L-W-
a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself. Herc, did not show how the 
Petitioner's personal traits and work ethics have greatly influenced or impacted the journalism field. 
In addition, did not identify the Petitioner's "journalistic accomplishments" and 
why the field considers them to be "outstanding." 
The letter from has similar issues. He indicated that when China Business Weekly 
published the Petitioner's article on future birth rates, "the stock prices of companies that provide 
baby-related goods and services have almost doubled on [the Petitioner's] predictions.". 
however, did not explain how the journalism field views the article as being majorly significant or 
how the increase of stock prices on baby-related products is evidence of influence on the journalism 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements . 1756. Inc. v. The U.S. All 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9; 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
In addition, the Director noted that the Petitioner's work was cited by the 
. The record also contains excerpts of "Annual 
Report" for 2016 and 2017 reflecting citations to the Petitioner's articles. While the Petitioner 's 
articles were referenced in two government reports, she did not establish how any of her articles are 
considered of major significance to the overall journalism field. Nor has she shown that the citation 
of her article in a government report demonstrates an original contribution of major significance, as 
she did not establish the impact or importance of annual reports on her field. · 
The Petitioner also maintained that her book, , meets this criterion and 
asserted that "[t]he novel received extensive .media coverage from major Chinese online news 
outlets" and "incited widespread positive commentaries and reviews from experts." In addition to 
the two book reviews discussed under the published material criterion, the Petitioner submitted a 
third review, posted on cnpop.org. Here, the Petitioner has not. shown that three book reviews 
demonstrate her claim of ';extensive media coverage" and "widespread positive commentaries." 
Moreover, while the websites summarized and reviewed the book, they do not show that the field 
views her book as having been highly influential, greatly impactful, or otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. Although the review from ifen.g.com indicated that her book is "the first non­
fiction novel that reflects Chinese fertility concept" reflecting its originality, it did not show its 
significance in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that her article, 
was included in the book, 
~ See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. a publ~cation 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian . 580 F.3d at I 036, aff d in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individuars contributions have alreadv influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). • 
5 
.
'Ma(fer <?f L-W-
of China Democracy and Legal System Publishing (CDLSP) . Although the Petitioner stressed the 
reputation of CDLSP as "repeatedly selected as the 'Best Publication Houses' by the General 
Administration of Press and Publication," she did not establish that her article is an original 
contribution of major significance. The issue here is not the reputation of the publishing company 
but the impact or influence of the article in the field. She did not, for example, show that her article 
garnered widespread attention from the field or that the book received high sales as a result of the 
inclusion of her article. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her field considers the 
article to be m~jorly significant. 
Further, the Petitioner maintained that she attended national and international conferences , including 
appearing as a guest speaker and hostess. While the Petitioner offered evidence of her participation, · 
such as hostess for the · she did not establish, for instance, 
the significance of her conferences, if the field views them as authoritative, or whether they have 
been extensively referenced or cited by others. 7 Publications and presentations are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance ." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS. 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), af{'d injJart, 596 F.Jd 1115. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met her burden of showing that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's finding for 
this criterion. 
Evidence <?l the alien ·s authorship of scholarly arlicles in !he field. in pr<fessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . 
Previously, the Petitioner claimed that her articles qualified as comparable evidence under the 
regulation at the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) .8 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she 
"submit[s] direct evidence to satisfy this criterion without relying on the a~gument of comparative 
evidence." Specifically, the Petitioner provides the translations of abstracts for 42 articles reflecting 
the majority published in China Business News Daily, as well as other publications such as 
Journalism Lover, Modem Communication, and China Radio and TV Academic .Journal. In 
addition, the Petitioner argues that her article included in the book, 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 : I, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working' in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, 
may be probative of the significance of person·s contributions to the field of endeavor): see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). · 
8 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to her 
occupation. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 12. A petitioner should explain why she has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the 
evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J). Id. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show whi she cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. General assertions · that any of the ten 
objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and should be discounted . Id. 
6 
.
Matter of L-W-
and presentations at academic conferences , discussed above, also meets this 
criterion. 
A scholarly arti~le should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned " is defined as 
having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons 
having profound knowledge of a field.9 Because the Petitioner has only submitted abstracts of her 
articles, which include one or two-sentence summary paragraphs, she has not established that her 
articles qualify as "scholarly articles." Likewise, while the Petitioner provided evidence of the 
publication and sale of the book, she did not present the actual article. Further, the Petitioner did not 
offer evidence showing that her presentations were scholarly in nature and appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. Without such evidence , the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has authored scholarly articles consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien· has performed in a leading or critical role for organizalions or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she qualifies for this criterion based on her critical roles with and 
10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.11 · 
Regarding the record contains a letter from CEO, who in~icated that the 
Petitioner "has been promoted to Senior Correspondent for the entire since 2010," she was 
named an "Excellent Employee in 2005 for her professional contributions ," and received a 
"Contribution Award in 2015 for her significant contribution." She also submitted h~nor certificates 
supporting letter reflecting her "outstanding work performance in 2005" and an honorary 
contribution award in 2015. On appeal, the Petitioner presents an ;'Employment Verification" letter 
stating that "[h]er employment performance has been excellent , and she has no criminal record." As . I 
it pertains to . the record includes a le(ter from former deputy director, who claimed 
that the Petitioner "has been one of the critical coptributors," she received two awards for her stories, 
and the "TV station [has] received large volumes of inquiries from reporters of other TV stations to 
collaborate on follow-up stories about [the Petitioner's] original news discoveries ." · 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
10 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that she performed in a leadine. role for either organization . 
II Id. ~ . 
7 
.
Maller of L-W-
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, probative. information to establish that she 
performed in a critical role for organizations or establishments that have a.distinguished reputation . 12 
For instance, did not identify what contributions the Petitioner made and ho\\; they 
contributed to the success or standing of Moreover, employment longevity and employer 
satisfaction are not evidence demonstrating that an employee's role is critical to the operations of the 
organization. Further, the Petitioner did not establish how her news stories contributed to the overall 
television station. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
' The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.Jd at I 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed . 
Cite as Matter <~fL-W-, ID# 1901372 (AAO Jan. 17, 2019) 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1. supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be panicularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the let~ers contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a music teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § ll 53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter ofS-K-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a music teacher at in 
California. Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets three additional criteria, discussed below. We 
have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationall y recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i). 
The Petitioner contends to meet this criterion based on her receipt of the "Gold Award" at the 
and "Silver Award" at the 
As it relates to the __ award, the 
2 
.
Matter of S-K-
Petitioner references a letter from a tenor, who described the competition as "a 
platform for the Chinese young people from all over China and all over the world to compete and 
display their artistic talents." Moreover , the Petitioner submitted screenshots from news.163.com 
reporting on the fifth and sixth editions of the teenage festival. While the evidence relates to the 
festival, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the garnered awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. 1 
Similarly, regarding the award, the Petitioner presented a letter from a 
soprano singer, who claimed that "it is a national level music contest authorized by the Organizing 
Committee of '"2 In addition, the Petitioner provided a 
document from the organizing committee indicating that the ' is the 
grand comprehensive expert award of approved by the Propaganda 
Department of the ' Further, she offered screenshots from news.focus.en 
reflecting that "[t]he serves the purpose of talent reserve for 
and the purpose of building a platform for children with music dreams to display and 
exchange their talents." Although the documentation indicates that the award and festival are 
sanctioned by a Chinese governmental entity, the Petitioner did not show that the field recognizes 
the as a national or international award for excellence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the .field.for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on membership with the 
and the She submits 
screenshots from the website reflecting that "[p ]eople [who] work in musical fields with 
musical achievements and having citizenship of People's Republic of China ... can submit [an] 
application." Moreover, an individual "can be admitted ... if being introduced by two I 
members , recommended by group members or approved by and completing the 
formalities. " Further, individuals in the performing arts must meet one of the following conditions: 
award winners at international competitions, national professional contests, or competitions at or 
above provincial levels; held an individual concert and received "good comment"; conductors with 
experience and with certain influence ; solo singer, solo player, or opera protagonist for more than 
five years; second level or above titles as performer or singer; or folk musicians with high artistic 
level, greater impact, and recognized by the commuriity. Similarly, the Petitioner presented 
screenshots from the website reflecting that applicants must "have influen[ ce] in the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 also indicated that "[t]he winner's teacher will be awarded the 'Excellent Music Teacher Award."' 
3 
.
Matter of S-K-
business domain ... of the and either "[r]anked among top three in or above provincial 
professional competitions" or "issued a few works on professional publications above provincial and 
municipal levels and has exerted a certain level of influen[ce]." 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.3 While the associations limit membership by requiring 
applicants to achieve a certain level of accomplishment, such as winning an award at an international 
or national competition or performing as a solo artist for five years, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that such requirements rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the individuals 
responsible for judging the membership candidates for these organizations are comprised of 
recognized national or international experts. 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class(fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. 
Specifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about her in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, which include the title, date, and author.4 The record 
reflects that she submitted an article about her from the International Daily News. In addition, she 
provided a screenshot from Wikipedia, which claimed that International Daily News "is a major 
Chinese-language newspaper in North America and Indonesia." We note that Wikipedia is an 
online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity 
of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (January 16, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 
(8th Cir. 2008). Moreover, Wikipedia does not reference or cite to source information to support its 
claim that the newspaper is a "major" medium. Further, while Wikipedia indicates that the 
publication has a national circulation of 50,000, the Petitioner did not establish that such figures 
show major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also presents two articles published on a number of websites, including 
js.news.163.com and news.ifeng.com . The Petitioner did not submit evidence to demonstrate that 
3 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
Matter ofS-K-
any of the websites are considered major media, and she did not include the required author of one 
article.5 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classffication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that she participated as a judge at a children's singing 
and talent contest. As such, the Petitioner demonstrated that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
While the Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion, we disagree. Initially, the 
Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion. However, in response to the Director's request 
for evidence, she submitted three authored articles that were published after the filing of the petition. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USC IS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); !KEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 
Matter ofS-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-K-, ID# 1920737 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) 
6 MATTER OF G-O-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a hospitality consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On 
appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation, contending that he meets at least three 
criteria and qualifies for the classification. He indicates that upon entering the United States, he 
intends to establish a hotel consulting company to facilitate U.S. hotel brands' entry into the China 
market and will provide consulting services to investors in the hospitality industry. 
Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the-field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter of G-0-
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Based on a review of the record in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has shown, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, 1 that he has sustained national acclaim and that his achievements as a 
hospitality consultant have been recognized in the field of hospitality consulting. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). He has therefore established his eligibility for the classification. 
The Petitioner has been a hospitality consultant for over a decade. He founded 
in 2003, and in 2007. He has served as a 
consultant for hundreds of hotel projects in China, including those associated with 
and 
A. Initial Evidence Requirements 
While the record does not establish his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he has 
satisfied at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner "has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or ''probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the "preponderance of 
the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
with Certain Form /-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update 
ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda . 
2 
.
Matter of G-0-
establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record 
supports this conclusion. Specifically, the Petitioner is the executive president of 
and is responsible for its consulting, data research, strategies and product 
research, and financial management. According to the evidence the Petitioner has presented, the 
entity is one of China's largest professional hotel consultancy companies. It has provided consulting 
services to numerous hotel projects and has received a number of industry awards. 
In addition, the Petitioner has submitted "( d]ocumentation of [his] receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). In March 2017, he received Award 
at the According to a December 2016 letter from the 
award issuing entity, the Petitioner was nominated for this accolade based on "[his] business 
reputation and influence in the industry." Reference letters in the record explain that the awards 
from the event are the highest honors in China's hotel industry and that national media has referred 
to the ceremony as the Oscars of China's tourism and hotel industry. In addition, the Petitioner has 
presented documentation showing that the event received media attention and that news outlets, 
including those with national readership and viewership, reported the event. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has presented "( e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). He developed a financial analysis system that, according to the 
"can determine whether a certain hotel project has the 
conditions to open, the scale of operating risks, and the project investment feasibility conclusion of 
the best plan for the hotel management through investigation, analysis, and forecasting." Reference 
letters indicate that most hotel consultant companies in China now use the Petitioner's system. 
China Hotel magazine, a publication on China's national tourism and hotel industry, reported that 
the Petitioner "pioneered the investment analysis methods and system of the Chinese hotel industry" 
and that he "has had a profound impact on the development trend of Chinese hotel industry and the 
development concepts of hotel developers." 
Based on the reasons specified above, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, we will next evaluate the totality of 
the evidence in the context of the final merits determination. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F .R. § 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets other criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As he 
has satisfied at least three of the ten criteria, we will discuss all relevant evidence in the final merits determination. 
3 
.
Matter of G-0-
204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this case, we conclude that he has 
shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, his eligibility for the classification. 
The record, including numerous reference letters, shows that the Petitioner has been a hospitality 
consultant for over a decade and has completed hundreds of hospitality projects. the 
president of states that the Petitioner "has provided 
consultancy services for over 400 hotel projects" in China. International Hotel Leader magazine 
similarly reports that he is a hotel consultant who has completed hundreds of projects in China. 
the vice president of hotel development in China for details 
the Petitioner's work on projects in China. He indicates that the Petitioner "has the richest 
professional experience amongst all Chinese hotel consultants, and his professional achievements are 
the most prominent." concludes that the Petitioner "is an undisputed top expert in hotel 
consulting industry with a high reputation in the industry." the vice president of 
development in China for notes that the Petitioner's "wealth of professional 
experience, open vision and creative thinking" have led to "his outstanding achievements and 
contribution to the hotel industry." 
In addition, the Petitioner has made significant impact on the field of hospitality consulting through 
his development of a financial analysis system and databases. the vice president of 
development for China, confirms that the Petitioner has "built hotel 
market analysis databases for several hundreds of cities in China and opened to the industry the 
databases of 50 key cities, benefiting fellow hoteliers and consultants including ' who 
uses the databases frequently. states that the Petitioner "has made tremendous 
contributions to the development of China's hotel industry and is indeed one of the most 
authoritative experts in the hospitality consulting industry." According to the 
the Petitioner's system "has been widely adopted by China's hotel industry" 
and that his "numerous hotel market databases and case libraries ... have significantly benefited 
China's hoteliers and hotel investors." 
notes that the Petitioner's investment analysis system "has become the authoritative system of 
investment analysis in the Chinese hotel consulting industry" and that his "databases are one of the 
only database systems in China's hotel industry and are therefore widely used by the industry." 
Other professionals in the field, including who is a professor in the 
at similarly confirms that 
the Petitioner has created a financial analysis system that has been adopted by many reputable hotel 
consulting firms in China. 
There is other evidence that illustrates the Petitioner's national acclaim as a hospitality consultant. 
For example, a number of publications with substantial readership base have reported on his work. 
They include the China Hotel magazine, which refers to him as "a top hotel consultant and 
investment analysis expert" who "has made significant contributions to the hotel industry and 
hospitality consulting industry" in China. Moreover, the Petitioner was named the honorary 
chairperson of because of his contributions to China's 
hotel industry. Additionally, based on his expertise in the field, he has been invited to lecture at the 
4 
.
Matter of G-0-
and industry events, including those organized by 
and 
, his professional opinions have been quoted and relied on as authority in news articles 
discussing China's hospitality industry. Likewise, he has received a nationally recognized award at 
the as well as other accolades, including those from the 
and ___________ in recognition 
of his national acclaim in the field. 
Upon a review of the record in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, sustained national acclaim and that he is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)­
(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He has 
also established that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his admission 
will benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for the classification. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofG-O-, ID# 1922197 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) MATTER OF S-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of applied 
physics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional evidence, contending that he meets a third criterion, 
relating to original contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter ofS-D-
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record, including the Petitioner's resume, shows that he received his Ph.D. degree in physics in 
2013, worked as a postdoctoral research associate between 2014 and 2017, and has been employed 
as an engineer by since 2017. According to a letter from his employer, 
he "applies his expertise in applied physics and materials engineering to nanoelectronics and. 
optoelectronic device fabrication and manufacturing in this research-and-development based 
position." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The 
record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented evidence, including documentation 
from Applied Physics Letters, a professional publication, confirming that he served as its reviewer 
and reviewed manuscripts in 2016 and 2017. In addition, the record establishes that he has authored 
scholarly articles that are published in professional journals, including 
that 
appeared in Chemistry of Materials, and 
that appeared in Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A: Vacuum, Surfaces and Films. While 
the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , he has not met the initial 
evidence requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 1 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate . that he has received a major. internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
2 
Matter of S-D-
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
which requires him to present "[ e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field of applied physics. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The record is insufficient to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, he claims that some of his "most notable contributions" relate to "the structural properties 
of liquid crystals," the "manufactur[ing] of micro-and nano-scale semiconductors," and the use of 
"mesoporous materials and core-shell nanoparticles ... in alternative energy applications." Relying 
on evidence, including reference letters, information on the publication of and citations to his 
articles, his presentations, as well as research projects, he maintains that his work "has been highly 
beneficial to his research field" and has "led to major practical benefits for the development of next­
generation optic and electronic devices, the biomedical field, and the energy sector." 
The record, including printouts from scholar.google.com, indicates that the Petitioner has authored 
approximately 20 scholarly articles, and that his most cited work -which received 64 citations as of 
May 2018 -was published in 2011, before he received his Ph.D. degree. On page 12 of his 
appellate brief, he acknowledges "his relatively low [citation] count," but asserts that citation 
frequency "is indicative of his professional background, not the significance of his contributions." 
He further argues that "citations should not be considered the only gauge of original scientific 
contributions for an industry researcher like [him]." We agree with his position that citation to one's 
work alone is insufficient to confirm contributions of major significance in the field. However, 
evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which 
cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of [his] 
contributions to the field of endeavor." USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, 8. 
The Petitioner has presented citation related evidence, including Microsoft Academics Author 
Metrics, information on the total number of citations he has garnered, and documentation on the 
"baselines citation rates" of various scientific fields. These materials, while showing that he has 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form /-/40 Petitions; Revisions lo the Aqjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda. 
3 
.
Matter of S-D-
been a productive researcher and author who has received some attention in the field, are insufficient 
to confirm that he has made original contributions that rise to the level of "major significance." For 
example, these documents do not specifically explain the impact of each of the Petitioner's studies in 
the field, or establish that his findings have been widely accepted or implemented throughout the 
field. Indeed, the Petitioner acknowledges on page IO of his appellate brief that "a researcher 's 
aggregated citation count does not provide sufficient insight regarding the impact and overall 
significance of [his] contributions." 
The Petitioner has also offered reference letters and other documentation showing that scientists 
from different parts of the world have cited to his articles. a professor at the 
discusses in his letter the Petitioner 's most cited article, providing that 
he and other scientists have cited to the article and relied on its findings in their own studies. 
a professor and the Chair of Graduate Studies at the 
states that he and other researchers have "drawn substantial inspiration from [the 
Petitioner's] experiments" and relied on his findings. a professor at 
in Germany, indicates that his and other research groups have benefited from 
the Petitioner's research and scientists from different parts of the world have implemented his 
findings. , a professor and the Interim Dean of the College of Nanoscale Science at 
discussed a 20 I 6 article that he coauthored with 
the Petitioner, noting that the work has garnered 8 citations as of April 2018. "Letters that lack 
specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion." USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from 
physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet 
this criterion). 
These and other letters not specifically mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show that 
the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, 
insufficient to confirm that the level of attention he has received reflects widespread commentary 
and acceptance of his work, or that the field of applied physics has regarded his research as 
authoritative. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently explain how an individual's 
contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036. 
Some documents in the record indicate that the Petitioner has been invited to present his findings at 
conferences, symposiums, and workshops. These activities, as well as the publication of his articles, 
illustrate that he has disseminated his work in the field. The Petitioner, however, has not submitted 
sufficient evidence of the impact and influence that his work has had in the field after dissemination. 
As such, he has not shown that his presentations satisfy this criterion. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major significance" in the 
field. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d 1030, I 036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
4 
Matter ofS-D-
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he has participated in research funded by reputable 
organizations. The record does not show that he had received these grants. Rather, he participated 
in studies that received the grants. Regardless, an award of grants or funding signifies that the award 
issuing organization considers the study, as proposed, to have certain level of importance. But to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion, he must offer evidence that after the 
completion of the research, or the publication or presentation of the findings, the response to his 
work confirms that it has remarkably impacted or influenced the field as a whole. He has not 
submitted such evidence. Similarly, his work in other collaborative researches, absent evidence of 
substantial impact and influence in the field originating from his involvement is insufficient to meet 
this criterion. Every research adds information to the pool of knowledge in some way for it to be 
accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every finding that broadens the knowledge 
base in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific contribution of major significance in that field. 
Based on the evidence in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field of applied 
physics. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
5 
Matter ofS-D-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-D-, ID# 1921918 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-Y-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a chemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a briet: arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of H-Y-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior chemist at in Michigan. Because he 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
journals. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions of major sign(ficance in !he.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director applied an overly restrictive standard in determining 
whether he satisfied this criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by 
comparing him to others in the field who have garnered substantially more citations to their 
2 
.
Matter of H-Y-
published works. For instance, the Director concluded that "while [the Petitioner's] research 
demonstrates original contributions in the field, the number of citations of his work, when compared 
with that of the leading scientists in the field, whose publications . . . have garnered citations 
numbered well in the thousands, does not substantiate contributions of major significance in the 
field." We note that the Director's decision does include a discussion of the Petitioner's letters of 
support, publications, and citation history. In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative 
citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if the Director determined he met 
at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F .3d at 1115. However, the comparison of 
citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this criterion in order to establish the 
field's view of a petitioner's piece of written work. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether he has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director should have focused on whether each of the 
Petitioner's original contributions was of major significance instead of concentrating on his 
cumulative citations. He submits updated screenshots from Google Scholar reflecting that 9 of his 
papers have been cited 455 times, including 8 papers with no citations. Generally, citations can 
serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work. The Petitioner, 
however, has not sufficiently identified the specific contributions he has made through his written 
work, nor has he demonstrated that his citations for each of his published articles are commensurate 
with contributions of major significance. 
In reviewing the evidence, his two highest cited articles have been cited 166 
and 149 times. His remaining articles have been cited 34 times or less. 
Although the record contains samples of articles that cited to his own work, they do not reflect that 
his research has been featured or extensively discussed, nor do they distinguish his findings from the 
hundreds of other articles cited in the papers. While the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of his work through co-authored publications reporting his discoveries , he has not 
demonstrated that the overall field views his research and work as being majorly significant. 
The Petitioner contends that his "research has been cited at extraordinary rates compared to the 
norms of his field." Specifically, he maintains that I article -149 cites) ranks among the 
top 0.1 %, 1 article -166) ranks among the top 1 %, and four other articles 
rank among the top 10% by subject area for the year in which they were published. The comparative 
ranking to average citation rates does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions to 
3 
.
Matter of H-Y-
the field. Rather, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's 
citations to other similarly, highly cited articles, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. 
Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F .3d 1115. Furthermore, the Petitioner indicates that his articles have been 
published in journals with "impressive rankings,'' such as "40.13 7" impact factor. A 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall 
citation rate. It does not, however, demonstrate an author's influence or the impact of research on 
the field. While we acknowledge that prestigious status of the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of his articles in those journals establishes that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. 
Although his citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the number of citations to his individual papers demonstrate their 
"major significance." While he submitted samples of other articles that cited to his work, they do 
not distinguish the Petitioner's written work from the other articles cited. Further, the articles do not 
show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to 
his work.1 Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that "commercial entities have licensed his research for 
development purposes," such as and 
He also submitted "Materials Transfer Agreement" between the and 
and claiming that such "licensing agreements show that existing organizations 
in industry have found value in the material, a strong indicator of significance in a scientific field." 
Moreover, the record contains a letter from professor, who stated that "[ a ]11 of these 
companies are interested in utilizing our laboratory's self-healing technology as a coating material 
that is able to self-heal after damage" and "[ a]ll of these collaborations are in process, and the 
ultimate goal of these collaborations is to integrate our self-healing technology into their products." 
Although the documentation shows interest in his research, the Petitioner did not establish how his 
work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field rather than prospective, 
potential impacts. Moreover, as "these collaborations are in process," the significant nature of his 
research has yet to be determined or measured. Further, the fact that corporations have expressed 
interest in the Petitioner's research is not necessarily evidence showing that the field views his 
findings of having been greatly influential. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ()f Evidence Submitled with Certain Form l-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
.
Matter of H-Y-
Similarly, the Petitioner offered evidence reflecting that he is credited on a patent as one of the 
inventors for 
A patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea does not 
necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field. While the record shows 
that his patent has received 19 citations, the Petitioner did not explain how it has greatly impacted or 
influenced the field or is otherwise considered an original contribution of major significance by the 
field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends that his research has received funding from the 
and asserts that "funding is highly competitive, and the 
government grants its financial support to only the most significant scientific research." However, 
receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. 
Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or similar funding are reflective of his past 
works' major significance, or that is his research conducted with the funding resulted in 
contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the evidence shows that funding was 
used for research reported in his article. However, as discussed above, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that his findings described in the journal article caused a major, significant contribution. 
In addition, he did not show how the funding reflected the importance of his contributions 
to the overall field. 
Further, the Petitioner argues that his research has received media coverage. The record contains 
screenshots from five websites that reported on the Petitioner's findings. However, the Petitioner 
did not show that such coverage is indicative of original contributions of major significance in the 
field. For example, he did not demonstrate that his research and findings resulted in widespread 
coverage and interest in major publications. Instead, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
websites that convey "latest research news" without showing the actual impact on the field. For 
example, materialstoday.com informed that "[s]cientists have developed a cheap hydrolyzable 
polymer that can be designed to degrade over time, and which could offer a viable alternative to 
those used in a range of biomedical applications" ( emphasis added). Moreover, the screenshot stated 
that "[t)he findings ... could become dynamic and degradable" and "researchers hope to investigate 
changes of hydrolysis kinetics under various environmental conditions" ( emphasis added). While 
the screenshot established the originality of the Petitioner's research, it speculates on potential 
influence and on the possibility of being majorly significant in the future. 
Finally, while the Petitioner notes that the record contains recommendation letters praising him for 
his original contributions , the letters do not demonstrate their major significance to the field. The 
letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and 
mention his citation numbers. Although they detail the novelty of the Petitioner 's research, they do 
not show why it has been considered of such importance and how its impact on the field rises to the 
level required by this criterion. The letters contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field 
without providing specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. For 
instance, engineer, described the Petitioner 's "development of one of the first 
reversible polymers that does not require a catalyst or the addition of thermal energy to convert," but 
5 
.
Matter of H-Y-
did not explain the significance of the research to the field or how it has greatly influenced other 
researchers or scientists.2 Likewise, professor, discussed the Petitioner's work and 
findings on projects without specifying how they are considered by the field to be majorly 
significant. Instead, mentioned that the Petitioner's "acumen as a scientist that he has 
consistently published in excellent journals." Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.3 
On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y 
Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
Matter of H-Y-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of H-Y-, ID# 1944299 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) 
..., U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
·MATTER OF D-A-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION ' Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an international relations· scholar and co1sultant, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their" extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose . achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Texas Service Center approved the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker. 
However, the Director of the Texas Service Center subsequently issued a notice of intent to revoke 
and later revoked the approval of the immigrant petition, finding that U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) had approved the .petition iri error. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. · 
On. appeal, the Petitioner offers additional documentation, as well as previously submitted 
documentation, and a brief, contending that he meets at least three of the ten criteria and qualifies as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
The Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition ... ·.''. Section 205 of the .Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. By 
regulation this revocc).tion authority is delegated to any USCIS officer who i,s authorized to approve 
an immigrant visa petition. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(a). USCIS must giv,e the petitioner notice of its intent 
to revoke the prior approval of the petition and the opportunity to submit evidence in opposition 
thereto, before proceeding with written notice of revocation. See1 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and (c). The 
Board oflmmigration Appeals has discussed revocations on notice as follows: 
[A] notice of intention to revoke a visa petition is properly issued for "good and 
sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time the notice is issued, if 
• Matter of D-A-
I unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa petition based upon 
the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to revoke will be 
sustained where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, including 
any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of 
intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 1 
( 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been. demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclc:1im and whose achievements have • been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation,. 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must prnvide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 c:F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaiQ1 and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R!jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance; probative value, and credibility, both individually 
1 Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter c?f Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 1987)). 
2 
.
Matter of D-A-
and within the context ·of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not. indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the. alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In revoking the approval of the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner 
did not meet any of the initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills 
the four criteria discussed below and requests that we consider additional documentation as 
comparable evidence for the artistic display criterion at. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii).2 We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in assoczatwns in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements <~{their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in_ their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presents documentation indicating his selection for 
jobs as a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the a Scholar-in-Residence at 
and a Visiting Fellow at the __ As supporting 
evidence, he submits job postings for a "Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy" position at the 
and a "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" position at The 
Petitioner states that "these institutions are distinguished research and academic institutions which 
have highly discerning processes for selecting these roles and the people making the selections are 
recognized experts in their own rightt 
\ 
While the Petitioner emphasizes the distinguished reputation of the above organizations, the record 
does not demonstrate that his selection for employment in the aforementioned jobs constitutes his 
"membership in associations in the field." Submission of documentary evidence reflecting. a 
petitioner's employment or involvement with a particular organization without evidence showing 
that the petitioner is a member of an association that requires. outstanding achievements of its 
members , as judged by recognized national or international experts, is insufficient to· meet the 
requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner's unsupported assertions that his employment in the 
2 The Oirector detennined that the Petitioner's evidence did not m~et the published· material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because the submitted material (including , for instance, documentation of his appearances on CNN and 
Al Jazeera) was not about him. The Petitioner does not contest that determination on appeal. Instead, the Petitioner 
asserts on appeal that the submitted media covernge should be evaluated as comparable evidence .under the regulation at 
8CF.R. § 204.5(h)(4) . · 
.
Matter of D-A-
noted roles should be evaluated as "memberships" are not persuasive and are inconsistent with the 
regulations. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
We further note that the record does not sufficiently document that the above organizations' job 
requirements for his particular positions rise to the level of outstanding achievements. With respect 
· to the Petitioner's employment at a March 2018 letter from 
Director of the identifies the Petitioner as 
a "Scholar-in-Residence" rather than a "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" ( e!11phasis added). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown that the "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" job 
. announcement is an accurate representation of the selection requirements for his position. Similarly, 
the Resident "Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy" fulltime perm~nent job announceme.nt from the 
is not specific to the Petitioner's part-time Nonresident Senior Fellow positiqn. 
The record also includes a March 2018 letter from a Senior Fellow at the 
asserting that his organization's "Visiting Fellow program is highly discerning'' 
and that "Visi_ting Fellows are selected based on their outstanding achievements in their specific area 
of expertise." Similarly, a March 2018 letter from Executive Vice President at the 
contends that his organization's "Nonresident Senior Fellows are carefully 
selected by leadership as well as our in-house experts in the field, based on their outstanding 
achievements as policy analysts or scholars in the field." The aforementioned letters from 
and do not list their organizations' specific requirements or further elaborate on 
the job selection criteria. Repeating the language of the regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's 
burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a_ff'd, 905 
F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates. Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Finally, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that job applicants' 
achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts. · 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly, artistic. athletic. or business­
relatedcontributions of ma_jor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner provided various letters of support and 
documentation relating to his published work and several conferences and speaking engagements in 
which he participated. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made contributions that were original but that they have been of major signific;mce in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of ·support 
from experts in the field were insufficient to meet this criterion. The Petitioner provides additional 
4 
.
Matter of D-A-· 
support letters and contends that he has "provided expert policy analysis and advice to U.S. 
policymakers with regard to U.S.-Israel-Middle East relations, impacted the policy outcomes, and 
contributed to the· theoretical and strategic framework for critical bilateral and multilateral 
agreements such as the July 2015 Iran Nuclear Deal." ' In addition, he presents documentation 
relating to bilateral and multilateral peace agreements and other programs in which he maintains he 
was involved.3 
With respect to the Petitioner's letters of support, the Director explained that "USCIS may, in its 
discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony," but noted that 
"USCIS is ultima~ely responsible for making the final determination regarding an alien's eligibility." 
See Matter of <;aron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). A.s a result, we evaluate the 
content of letters to determine whether they support his eligibility. See id. at 795-96; see also Matter 
of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008) (noting that expert opinion testimony does not purport to 
be evidence as to "fact"). Here, the record includes letters from notable experts in international 
relations attesting to the Petitioner's involvement as a government official or consultant in various 
international agreements and his status as an influential authority in matters of policy. However, as 
discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific "original contributions" 
that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
With respect to the Petitioner's work as a U.S.-Middle East relations strategist and scholar, the 
record includes a letter of support from Distinguished Fellow and 
Counselor at the for Near East Policy, stating that the Petitioner has influenced 
"policy makers, companies and individuals with interests in the Middle East." indicates 
that "[t]he ongoing crises in the Middle East pose many challenges for the United States" and that 
the Petitioner "has successfully shaped policies in order to achieve stability in the region." 
, however, does not identify -specific U.S. or Israeli policies the Petitioner is credited with 
shaping or provide specific examples of how his particular work furthered stability in the Middle 
East or otherwise rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In his February 2017 letter of support, 
During the time that I served 
at the at Executive Director for Research at the 
4 states: 
and [the Petitioner] was the 
[2009-2012], we 
.3 This documentation includes "Declaration of Principles " ( 1993), ''.Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty" ( 1994), "Wye River 
Memorandum " (1998), information about the "Builders for Peace" program ( 1990s), "Me1norandum of Understanding 
Between Israel and the United States" (2007), "Israeli-Palestinian lnteriin Agree1ilent" ( I 995), and information about the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Ac.tion -Iran Nuclear Deal (2015), The aforementioned documents do not mention the 
Petitioner or demonstrate the significance of his specific involvement 
4 From 2009 until 2013, "served as 
During much of ___ service, the Petitioner worked as 
__, from 2009 until 2012, I · 
5 
.
.Matter of D-A-
frequently consulted on diplomatic strategies to achieve a solution to the Iranian 
nuclear threat. [The Petitioner] was a strong advocate for reaching a deal with Iran 
because failing to do so would lead to devastating outcomes .... [The Petitioner] has 
consistently communicated to the policy community that a military campaign 
·· involving the United States, ~srael or the Gulf States would be counterproductive 
because it would draw the ire of the international community and bestow Iran with 
legitimacy to pursue a nuclear weapon. 
March 2018 letter further contends that the Petitioner's "advice was well received and 
ultimately taken by U.S. policy makers including myself, laying the groundwork for and ultimately 
contributing to the United States' nuclear agreement with Iran in July 2015. This multilateral 
agreement restricted the growth of Iran's nuclear capabilities in exchange for lifting certain 
sanctions." In addition, states that the agreement "was a major· diplomatic 
accomplishment for the United States and a step toward securing peace and preventing nuclear 
proliferation in the Middle East, one for which [the Petitioner] played an important role." ' . 
While indicates that he and the Petitioner "consulted on diplomatic strategies to achieve 
a solution to the Iranian nuclear threat," we note that neither was working for· his respective 
government in July 2015 when the agreement was reached. According to the "Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action" submitted by the Petitioner, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, 
the United States, the European Union, and Iran executed this agreement in July 2015 and Israel was 
not among the participating countries. Furthermore, the record includes a July 2015 article, entitled 
"6 Things You Should Know About the Iran Nuclear Deal," indicating that the agreement concluded 
after a "marathon negotiating session by top diplomats over the past three weeks in Vienna." The 
documentation in the record relating to ,the Iran Nuclear Deal does not indicate that the Petitioner 
was among this agreement's chief negotiators or architects. While attests that the 
Petitioner advocated for pursuing a peaceful diplomatic solution and avoiding U.S. military action 
against Iran, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's particular consultations with 
and advice to other U.S. policy makers regarding a solution to the Iranian nuclear threat 
de~onstrate his integral role in bringing about the Iran Nuclear Deal or otherwise rise to the level of 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
· Moreover, a letter of support from former states: 
[The Petitioner] was an influential analyst and policy strategist on developments in 
U.S.-Isra~I and Israel-Middle East relations during my time on the 
committees. As at the 
. . . and subsequently as a Senior Fellow at [the 
Petitioner] provided me with critical insight and analysis that helped me gain a better 
understanding of U.S.-Israel and Middle East politics when I served on the 
committees. His analysis and advice were 
tremendously helpful to me in my efforts to further strengthen America's relations 
with Israel and my policy decisions vis-a-vis Israel and the Middle East.. 
0 • 
6 
.
Matter of D-A-
further contends that the Petitioner "contributed signifibantiy to the foreign policy 
dialogue surrounding U.S:~Israel and Israel-Middle East relations and ultimately impacted U.S. 
policy toward Israel and the region as a whole." While indicates that the Petitioner 
provided valuable ·insight, analysis, and advice on international relations and Middle East politics, he 
does not identify specific examples of issues on which the Petitioner's policy guidance on U.S., 
Israeli, and Middle Eastern affairs proved influential, nor does he offer sufficient information 
regarding how the Petitioner's particular consultations "impacted U.S. policy toward Israel and the 
region as a whole" or otherwise equate to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
A letter of support from former (2014-2017) and U.S. 
m == (2007~2010), discusses the Petitioner's participation as "a regular member of the 
states that the Petitioner frequently contributed to this group's "discussions which ultimately 
laid t~e diplomatic groundwork for subsequent coordinated U.S.-Israel policy on dealing with 
regional challenges such as the Iran Nuclear issue and the Arab Spring." While the Petitioner 
participated in the aforementioned working group's discussions, the record does not include 
sufficient information regarding his original contributions to these meetings or the significance of 
such contributions. For instance, neither ; letter nor supporting evidence in the record 
demonstrates whether the Petitioner offered specific strategies, recommendations, and/or policy 
input as a member of the group that constituted original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
Additionally, asserts that the Petitioner "played a central role in the drafting and later 
signing of the U.S.-Israel Memorandum of Understanding securing the historic $30 billion in U.S. 
security assistance for Israel for the period 2008-2018, signed by the parties in Jerusalem in 2007." 
The record includes an August 2007 article from the israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs website 
entitled "Signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between Israel and the United States." This 
article states: 
Representing the United States at the ceremony were Undersecretary of State R'. Nicholas 
Burns and U.S. Ambassador to Israel Richard Jones. On the Israeli side, Bank of Israel 
Governor Stanley Fisher, Director General of the Foreign Ministry Aaron Abramovich, 
Director General of the Ministry of Defense Pinchas Buchris and Israel's Ambassador to 
the United States, Salai Meridor, attended. 
The aforementioned article includes a five-page "Transcript of ceremony and press conference," but 
the Petitioner is not mentioned in the aiticle or transcript , nor identified as having "played a central 
role in the drafting and later signing" of the memorandum as claimed by Nor does the 
record otherwise include sufficient information or evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner 's 
particular work relating to this memorandum rises to the level of an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. For instance, the record does not show that the nature and extent of his role 
in the agreement was such that its passage was largely· attributable to him, nor has he identified or 
documented specific original contributions that he made to the drafting of the agreement which have 
been of major significance. 
.., 
.
Matter of D-A-
l 
The record also includes a letter of support from former 
to the United States from 1993 until 1997. 5 He states that the Petitioner served as his Chief of Staff 
during that period and "was a key point of contact to the and 
in planning, ,organizing, and carrying out a number of important 
diplomatic events including numerous visits to the. United States" by 
and and further 
indicates that the Petitioner "helped coordinate the historic signing of s~ver,al peace agreements 
including the U.S.-backed Israeli-Palestinian Declaration of Principles," "the Israeli-Jordanian 
Washington Declaration," "the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty in the Arava Crossing," and "the Israeli­
Palestinian Interim Agreement on tl]e West Bank and the Gaza Strip." In addition, . 
states that the Petitioner accompanied him to the , Israeli.:Syrian talks in 
participated as a member of and served as 
Israel's.point of contact for both the U.S. Government-funded program and the 
. While the Petitioner served as "a key point of 
contact" to the U.S. executive branch in his role as Chief of Staff at the the record 
does not include sufficient information and supporting evidence to demonstrate that through his 
coordination of various diplomatic events, participation as member of 
and work relating to the ___ program and 
he made original contributions of major significance in the field . 
. An additional letter from 
discusses the Petitioner's work as 
from 2009 to 2012 when was to the United States. asserts 
that the Petitioner "was directly involved with the niost important events affecting Israeli foreign 
policy, diplomatic, and security matters during his tenure as · and he made a 
vital contribution to attempts to advance the U .S.-backed peace efforts between Israelis and 
Palestinian promoted by _______ " further states: 
) 
[The Petitioner] was intimately involved in the joint and coordinated U.S.-Israeli 
consultations' and efforts to prevent Iran from reaching military nuclear capability; 
' U.S. continuous diplomatic efforts to bridge the gaps between the Israeli government 
. and the Palestinian Authority; the Israeli-Turkish flotilla incident in May 2010, the 
collapse of Israel-Turkish relations, and U.S. attempts to resolve these issues; Israel,'s 
strategic thinking with regard to the events of the Arab Spring beginning in January 
2011 including the Egyptian Revolution and the outb.reak of civil war in Syria; the 
lifting of the siege on Israel's embassy Cairo in September 2011; restoring Egyptian 
natural gas supply to Israel after terrorist attacks on the pipeline cut supply by 40%; 
and joint U.S.-Israel efforts to deal with the diplomatic, fallout and attempts at the 
letter notes that he is "currently President of the and professor eineritus of 
at . distinguished global professor at and a distinguished 
fellow at the 
8 
.
Matter of D-A-
' [United Nations] and other international organizations to sanction Israel over its ,A 
actions in Gaza. 
lists various peace efforts and foreign policy, diplomatic, and security matters in which the 
Petitioner was involved, but he does not sufficiently explain the nature of the Petitioner's original 
contributions to these efforts and the record does not show that his specific work relating to these 
events rises to the level of major significance .in the field. Furthermore, to the extent the 
aforementioned statements from and focus on the Petitioner's 
responsibilities as and Chief of Staff at the in and the tasks 
he performed in those roles, this information is more relevant to the leading or critical role criterion a:t 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion discussed below and that he has satisfied. 
Consisterit with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we 
will generally not consider evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion to satisfy this 
one. 
In addition to the letters of support, the record reflects that the Petitioner has published and presented 
his work. For example, the Petitioner published an analysis paper entitled . 
and spoke at a policy conference organized by the 
Committee. Publications and presentations, howevyr, are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance."· See Kazarian v. USCJS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. There is no presumption that 
every published article or conference presentation is a contribution of major significance in the field; 
rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of his article or presentation.6 In this case, the 
record does not show that the Petitioner's published and presented work has affected his field in a 
substantial way or that it otherwise equates to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Without sufficient evidence demonstrating the nature of his original contributions or their major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship ofscholarly articles in the field in professional or 
major trade publications or other major medid 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As discussed, the record shows that the Petitioner authored an analysis paper, entitled 
that was pµblished by the at the 
The record includes sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this work constitutes a 
scholarly article in a prot~ssional publication. 7 ·Accordingly , the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
. . 
· 6 Generally, citations can confirm that t.he field has taken interest in a scholar's work. The Petitioner submitted examples 
of several articles that cited to or referenced his analysis paper; .however they do not reflect that his work was singled out 
as particularly important. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the citations to his work, considered both individually 
and collectively, are commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the tJeld." 
· 7 A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship . Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a 
field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evalziation ol Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
9 
.
Matter of D-A-
Evidence that the alien has per.formed in a leading or critical role.for organizatio,ns or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation .. 8 C.F:R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). · 
We find that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on hi.s prior roles as and Chief of Staff at 
the 1n 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "his media coverage, speaking engagements, and published 
· articles" should be considered as comparable evidence of the "showcase of his work in lieu of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)," a criterion that requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the alien's work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases."8 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4) allows for 
comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. A petitioner should 
explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 9 . 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. He 
has not asserted or demonstrated that he cannot offer evidence that ineets at least three of the ten 
criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to ·meet more than three criteria. Moreover, the 
Petitioner has not shown that international relations scholars and consultants cannot present evidence 
relating to the other regulatory criteria such as receiving awards for excellence and commanding a 
high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ix). As such, the Petitioner has not established that 
he is eligible to meet the initial evidence requirements through the submission of comparable 
.d 10 e,v1 ence. 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/pol icy-memoranda. 
8 We note that, withrespect to the media covera·ge relating to the Petitioner (such as his CNN and Al Jazeera appearances 
as well as quotes appearing in major print media), the Director detennined that this evidence did not meet the published 
material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because the submitted material was not about him and the Petitioner does 
not challenge that determination on appeal. In addition, both our dec.ision and that of the Director have addressed the 
· Petitioner 's speaking engagements under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Furthermore, 
as discussed above, we found that the Petitioner's published article entitled · ___ fulfilled 
~he authorship of scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. · . 
10 On appeal, the Petitioner cites an AAO non-precedent decision for the proposition "that to prove eligibility under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) , one must only demonstrate that at least one criterion is not applicable, and that the submitted 
e.vidence is comparable to that criterion. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USClS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(c). Instead, we are bound by the published policy 
memorandum referenced above. 
10 
Matter of D-A-
) C. 0-1 Nohimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability: Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d is 
(D.D.C. 2003); !KEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. SUJ?P· 2d 22 (D.D._C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a.ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL. 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000), aff d, 248 · 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
It follows that t.he Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The revocation of the previously approved petition is affirmed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as. an independent and alternative basis for the decision. The burden of proof 
in these proceedings rests solely with the petitioner. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter 
of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The burden remains with the 
petitioner in revocation proceedings to establish eligibility for the benefit sought under the 
immigration laws. Matter of Cheung, 12 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1968); Matter ofEstime, 19 l&N Dec. 
at 452, n.1; and Matter o{Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 589. Here, the Petitioner has not met that burden. . I 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of D-A-, ID# 15189_16 (AAO Jan. 25, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF H-X- DATE: JAN. 28, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE. DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a clinical investigator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
which require documentati9n of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the 
10 regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We affirmed the Director's decision on 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision, which we 
denied.1 
The matter is now before us on the second motions to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits additional documentation, asserting that he meets at least three criteria for this 
classification under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Upon de novo review, we will deny both motions. 
· I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
Section 203{b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability. The 
term ."extraordinary ability"·refers only to those individuaJs in "that small percentage who have risen 
:#' 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of H-X-,' ID# 1227778 (AAO Jun. 15, 2018). 
Matter of H-X-
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). A petitioner can demonstrate a 
one-time acq.ievement (that is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material 
in certain media). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the. small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS. 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in-the context ofa final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our prior decision, we held that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements for a motion to 
reconsider and that the new evidence he submitted with the motion to reopen did ·not establish 
eligibility under the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Here, the Petitioner submits 
this joint motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision in which we reached those 
conclusions. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of _the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). It must be supported by. a pertinent precedent or 
adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) or Department of Homeland Security (OHS) policy. 
The Petitioner does not cite binding precedent decisions or other legal authority establishing that we 
incorrectly applied the pertinent law or agency policy in our prior decision based on the evidence of 
record at the time. To establish eligibility, we note that the Petitioner cites regulations from the 
Food and Drug Administration, which are not dispositive in this matter: Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and 
he has not met the requirements for a motion to reconsider.2 
2 The Petitioner contends that the authority of the Attorney General, now the Secretary of DHS, to revoke the approval of 
a petition, as stated in section 205 of the Act, does not extend to the Director. While this is beyond the scope of our 
review, we note that section 204 of the Act gives the Attorney General authority over petitions for aliens seeking 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. Section 204(a)( I )(E) of the Act, 8 U .S.C. § I I 54(a)( I )(E); see also 
. 8 C.F.R. § 2.1 (allowing the Secretary of DHS to delegate her authority) and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2 (stating that a Service 
officer authorized to approve a petition u.nder section 204 of the Act has autho'rity to revoke the approval ofa petition). · 
2 
.
Matter of H-X-
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by document~ry evidence. 8 C.F.R . 
. § 103.5(a)(2). We interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on 
motion and that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original 
petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not 
constitute "new facts." 
In our dismissal of his appeal, we held that the Petitioner.met only the scholarly articles criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). In his first motion, he submitted new evidence related to his membership 
in the , .and we found that this evidence failed to satisfy the regulatory 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). In the instant motion, he submits several pages from the 
Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) Manual, highlighting the occupational description for 
Medical Scientists, Except Epidemiologists, under SOC code 19-1042, and he resubmits other 
material already in the record. Here, the Petitioner does not explain how the information from the 
SOC manual relates to his claim regarding the membership criterion, nor does he show how it 
establishes eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements for a motion· to reopen. 
III._ CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The motion to reconsider is denied because the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous findings were based on an incorrect application of the law, regulations, or USCIS 
policy. Th~ motion to reopen is denied because the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence 
demonstrating that he meets the initial requirements for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
·-· FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of H~X-, ID# 1925252 {AAO Jan. 28, 2019) 
3 MATTER OF V-S-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate. their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose.achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional eviden~e and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Sectjon 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, mis, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose . achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
requirements. First, a petltloner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). · 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, -to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher at the School of Medicine in As he 
has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the 
Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but not for original contributions of major 
significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
criterion for original contributions of major significance. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria. 
Evidence o.f the alien ·s participation. either individually or on a panel. as a judge o.f the work 
of others in the same or an allied field <~f specfficalion for which class~fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
conducted reviews for the following journals Neuropsychiatrk -Disease and Treatment, Advances in 
Genomics and Genetics, and other journals. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets the 
requirements of this criterion. 
2 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
Evidence of the alien's original scientffic, scholarly. artistic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions of major signffzcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific , scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund. LP .. 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter. 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia. 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Director held that the letters from professors and researchers that were submitted with the initial 
petition and in response to the request for evidence (RFE) did not establish the major significance of 
the Petitioner 's original contributions in the field to meet this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that this evidence establishes that he was the first to discover the relationship of the 
gene in preventing congenital heart disease and its effects in wound healing and neurologica) 
disorders. He also states that he was "the first to establish the relationship between mutations 
and the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive primary microcephaly, a debilitating brain condition in 
infants." We will address each of these points below.1 
Regarding the letters from the professors and researchers in the record, an agency "may, in its 
discretion, use as advisory opinions statements ... submitted in evidence as expert testimony," but it 
is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. Matter of Caron Int 'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). 
In support of the the Petitioner's research on the gene, the record contains a letter from 
an assistant professor at who states that "[the Petitioner's] 
work was the first to show and its molecular role in neurological disorders." 
then indicates, "Further research is needed to determine the exact impact this protein has on the 
progression of neural disorders , but [the Petitioner's] work is an important first step to understand 
the pathophysiology of these diseases." adds, "The increasing incidence of 
neurodegenerative disorders means that the need to find a treatment or a cure, of which there are 
1 Counsel for the Petitioner states that the Director "denied the major significance of [the Petitioner's] work on the basis 
of a semantic distinction that is neither found in the regulatory language nor inherent to the concept of major 
significance." Specifically, the Petitioner refers to the Director's use of the terms "impact" and "importance" as used in 
an article the Petitioner submitted from the journal Scientometrics . See Lutz Bornmann and Werner Marx, "How to 
evaluate individual researchers working in the natural and life sciences meaningfully? A proposal of methods based on 
percentiles of citations. " 98 Scientometri cs 496(2014). While we acknowledge the authors' use of these terms in their 
scholarly discussion on evaluating researchers, the focus here is on whether the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Visinscaia, supra, ("Contributions of major significance " 
mean that the Petitioner 's work has significantly impacted the field). 
3 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
none, is becoming more urgent." She then asserts that "his work represents a vital step in advancing 
our understanding of these conditions and eventually finding ways to treat them." Here, the letter 
attests to the originality of the Petitioner's contribution, but speaks prospectively of its impact, 
indicating that the Petitioner's research on has not yet been of major significance to the field. 
Other letters in the record also discuss the Petitioner 's research on 2 For example, 
professor of pharmacology at the , . states that the Petitioner 
"concluded that is essential for normal cardiac function, and the deficiency of this protein 
leads to dilated cardiomyopathy and other cardiac issues, making this protein and the mutant mice 
that he created important tools for investigating new treatments for cardiovascular diseases." 
associate professor at the states in his letter 
that the Petitioner "found that plays an important role in neuronal development in the brain" 
and that it is "abundantly expressed in the skin during wound healing." Letters that specifically 
articulate how an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value, while those that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do 
not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.3 While these letters indicate that he has provided additional knowledge about 
the record does not demonstrate in specific detail how the Petitioner's work has been implemented 
such to show that it has significantly impacted the field. 
professor emeritus at the in Germany, indicates in her 
letter that the Petitioner 's research articles on "have been cited more than 80 times by many 
leading researchers in the field." However, the fact that the Petitioner has published articles that 
other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance . 
Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d l 030, l 036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. As noted by the Director, the goal of all researcl1 is "to be pioneering and 
innovative," or in other words, to advance the understanding of the topics of research. Although 
these citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the number of citations to his individual papers is indicative of significant influence 
within the field. 
The record contains a letter from assistant professor at who 
provides prenatal and preconception genetic counseling to patients and has reached out to the 
Petitioner on behalf of patients in her clinic. The record also contains a letter from an 
assistant professor of medicine in the division of cardiology at the 
who states that based on the Petitioner's research she began having her patients screened 
for genetic mutations and then studying their gene. While these are examples of how the 
2 Although we may not discuss every letter in the record, all were reviewed and considered in reaching our conclusion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html . · 
4 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
/ 
Petitioner has provided guidance to clinical practitioners, the record does not establish that assisting 
two individuals and their patients equates to a contribution of major significance to the whole field. 
In a letter from vice dean for innovation and development at the 
College of Medicine, she discusses a book chapter she wrote focusing on the structure and 
function of the human heart. She states that she ''extensively discussed the implications and 
significance of [the Petitioner's] findings regarding the molecular functions of in terms of 
disease-causing mutations. " The Petitioner has not shown that this book is widely used in the field 
or other evidence demonstrating that the inclusion of his work in this text indicates it is of major 
significance to the field. 
The Petitioner also contends that his research on mutations constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance. states that "[the Petitioner] and his colleagues 
studied a consanguineous eight generation family that had ten microcephalic children" and that he 
identified a mutation that was the "causal variant for [microcephaly]." The Petitioner notes 
four examples of other researchers who have cited his published findings and notes that his article 
discussing has been cited 63 times. He submits a graph from Microsoft Research which 
ranks the impact and productivity of his publications, but this is of limited probative value as the 
record does not demonstrate who compiled this report and where the data in the graph originated. 
The record also contains information from Google Scholar listing the citations for each of his 
publications and data from Clarivate Analytics which indicates that this article on mutations 
· ranks among the top ten percent most cited articles for 2013. While we note that this is the 
Petitioner's most cited article, he has not established that this citation rate shows that his work has 
been widely implemented in the field. Citations to a petitioner 's publications do not alone equate to 
contribution of major significance. See Kazarian. 580 F.3d at 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part. 596 
F.3d 1115 (publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
are of "major significance" in the field). Although these citations show that his research has 
received attention from the field, the Petitioner has not shown that the number of citations to his 
irydividual papers is indicative of significant influence in the field. The Petitioner has not otherwise 
shown the impact that his research on mutations has had in the field. "Contributions of major 
significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner notes that his findings have been incorporated into medical diagnostic guidelines, but 
the record contains only a single genetics test that references his research. He has not shown that _ 
medical diagnostic guidelines in the field at large have incorporated his research. He also cites a 
summary of a book published by GeneReviews/ which contains the research of and 
others, indicating that microcephaly disorders are associated with gene mutations, including 
but the Petitioner has not shown that these researchers cite his work or that this book has been of 
4 The record contains a summary of GeneReviews which states that it is "an international point-of-care resource for busy 
clinicians." See www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK 1116/. 
5 
Matter of V-S-P-
major significance to the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that his research 
constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field to meet this criterion. · 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship <~[ scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in the 
following journals: Human Molecular Genetics, Cellular and Molecular L[fe Sciences, and Nucleic 
Acids Research, among others. Thus, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of V-S-P-, ID# 1940214 (AAO Jan. 30, 2019) MATTER OF E-M-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an avant-garde dance artist, seeks classification as an indi~idual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a short statement, claiming that she meets an additional criterion 
and indicates on the Form 1-2908, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that "[her] brief and/or additional 
evidence will be submitted to [us] within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal" in June 20 I 8. 
However, as of the date of this decision, we have not received any additional submission. We will 
therefore adjudicate the appeal based on the record before us. 
Upon de nova review, we .will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. · 
Matter of E-M-P-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R, 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). lf the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the.context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R[jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value~ and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the "display of [her] work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record supports this 
conclusion, because the evidence shows that the Petitioner has performed as a dancer in shows and 
exhibitions. To satisfy the initial evidence requirements, the Petitioner must therefore establish that 
she meets two additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 The Petitioner has not 
asserted or established that she satisfies two additional criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has presented "[p ]ublished material about [her] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [her] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). While the record includes published 
materials, she has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. She offered an article that appeared 
on the website npr.org. While we accept that this website constitutes major media, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the published material is about her. The article is about a "Massachusetts dream-pop 
band" and references the Petitioner as a dancer in one of the band's musical videos. The Petitioner 
has not established or explained on appeal how this evidence is sufficient under the criterion. 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, she must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
Matter of E-M-P-
The record includes other published materials. They, however, also do not satisfy the criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Most of them are listings of the Petitioner's performances, along with 
other shows, informing the readers of the performing arts offerings in a particular city during a 
specified period. The Petitioner has not illustrated that these listings are "about [her] ... relating to 
[her] work in the field," as required under the criterion. Moreover, while she has presented other 
published materials that are about her, she has not shown that they appeared in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. There are some circulation and readership data in the 
record, but the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the magazines or websites qualify 
as professional or major trade publications or other major media. In addition, some of the pieces do 
not identify the author, as required under ·g C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In light of the above, the 
· Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Although the Petitioner has not claimed on appeal that she meets the "participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others" criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the record appears to show that she has submitted relevant evidence concerning 
this criterion. Specifically, documentation in the record indicates that she judged performances of 
dancers to determine if they should be admitted to a New York dance school. Assuming arguendo 
that she satisfies this criterion, she would nonetheless not meet the initial evidence requirements of 
presenting evidence satisfying at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based on the evidence in the record as well as the.arguments the Petitioner advances on appeal, she 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of the 
record in its entirety, we conclude that it d~es not support a finding that she has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ~f Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r._ 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
her artistic and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work. in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2J. . 
3 
Matter of E-M-P-
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of E-M-P-, ID# 1956749 (AAO Jan. 30, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-R-R-L-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that she had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability in the final 
merits analysis. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist. As she has not established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for awards, published 
material, judging the work of others, scholarly articles, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (viii), respectively. On appeal, we find that the evidence in the 
record sufficiently demonstrates that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, including published 
material, judging, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (viii). 
Specifically, the record reflects that the Petitioner has had articles published about her relating to her 
work in the field of journalism in professional or major trade or major media publications, she has 
participated as a judge of the work of others as a juror in selecting the recipients of numerous 
journalism awards, and she has performed a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation for her role on the I I television program, "A Day with [the 
Petitioner]." As she has satisfied three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we will 
evaluate the totality of her documentary evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below.1 
1 We will address the evidence in the record pertaining to awards and scholarly articles in the final merits analysis. 
2 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that she meets the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether 
she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final 
merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence 
to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established her eligibility. 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is a journalist who has had a successful career as a radio 
and television host. She received her bachelor's degree in social communications from the University 
ofl I in Venezuela, and was employed there from 1979 to 2009 while furthering her career in 
journalism. 
The record contains evidence of the awards the Petitioner has received, including the Municipal 
Journalism Award in 1989,2 the Order I I in 1997, the 
Orderl I in 1999, the Order in 2001, the Honorable Mention of the 
Municipal Journalism Award! I in 2003, and the Orderl lin 
2005. The record reflects tliat the maJonty of these awards come from the city of I I 
However, it lacks evidence demonstrating these awards signify recognition outside that local region, 
and thus are not indicative of national or international acclaim as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Additionally, the Petitioner was awarded the Orderl I in 1997, which she claims 
is a nationally recognized award that was given by the president of Venezuela. The record contains 
only a certificate for this award, and lacks documentation supporting the Petitioner's assertions of its 
national importance. Furthermore, she has not submitted evidence, such as media coverage, 
establishing that she received national or international acclaim for this or any of the other awards she 
has claimed. 
The Petitioner has submitted a number of articles published about her and her work, spanning from 
2001 until 2014. Most articles appeared in regional publications, such as Estampas or Panorama, and 
the Petitioner does not submit evidence to demonstrate that these publications convey national or 
international acclaim. A 2011 article appeared in the newspaper, Version Final, but the record contains 
inconsistent documentation of the publication's circulation and therefore does not establish the 
requisite level of acclaim or recognition. 3 In contrast, the Petitioner has submitted an article that 
appeared in 2006 in El Nacional, which the record identifies as a major Venezuelan newspaper, 
2 The Director indicated that the Petitioner received an award in 1998. This appears to be a scrivener's error as the record 
reflects that she received an award in 1989. 
3 The record contains a document claiming Version Final has over 100,000 daily readers, but does not reveal the source of 
its information. In contrast, it also contains documentation from a media certifying committee indicating that in 2011, 
Version Final had a circulation of 18.345. The record does not contain a full English translation, as required under 8 
C.F.R. § I 03.2(b)(3), nor does it contain evidence to overcome the discrepancies between these documents. 
3 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
regarding her work on her television show. 4 It quotes the Petitioner, briefly discussing the history of 
her television show and identifying plans to bring the show to an international audience after nine 
years of only being broadcast at a regional level. While the article recognizes the success of her local 
program and identifies hopes for expansion, the Petitioner has not established that it indicates national 
or international acclaim for her work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director should have recognized the media coverage about 
her through 2014. She submitted an article from that year that was published in El Venezolano, a 
Florida newspaper, discussing her thoughts on journalism and her career in Venezuela. However, the 
record does not demonstrate this article has resulted in national or international acclaim, as the 
circulation information provided shows the newspaper is circulated to 20,000 individuals inl I 
The Petitioner has not explained how this represents acclaim at a national or international level. 
The record contains evidence about the Petitioner's role in judging the work of others as a juror for 
awards given br the II C ,I in Venezuela. I I vice 
president of the identifies seven awards in which the Petitioner participated as a juror between 
1979 and 2009. 5 Beyond their names, no information is provided about the awards, including their 
dates or time period in which the Petitioner acted as a judge. Of the seven awards, only one is 
identified as a national journalism award, as the rest named as regional or municipal awards. The 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence about the awards to establish their significance or that of her 
judging. I I does not identify the criteria for her selection in his letter, nor do the~ 
regulations in the record provide any requirements for jury selection, beyond mandating that there be 
at least one representative from the National School of Journalists. As such, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner's selection as a juror marks that she has received the requisite acclaim and 
recognition in her field. 
Beyond her work wi!h.17 the record also contains a letter from~ _________ __. a dean 
at the University of~ating that the Petitioner "served as tutor, advisor and jury for the contest 
of opposition and merits presented by those professionals admitted to our institution as teachers and 
of the credentials and works of the professors aspiring to ascend into the ranks of [ faculty and research 
staff]."~------~ also indicates that the Petitioner has been a juror for postgraduate theses 
in one of the university's master's programs, and identifies five papers she reviewed. The Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence demonstrating that she has received any national or international acclaim 
for her work with the university, or that her position there, which began immediately after receiving 
her undergraduate degree, constitutes recognition of her achievements by the field. 
4 The Petitioner indicates that she was featured in another article from El Nacional in 2005. She submitted a photocopy 
of that article along with a letter from a translator who notes that the document is illegible and cannot be translated. The 
Petitioner provided a letter from~~--------- president and editor of El Nacional, indicating that she appeared 
in an article profiling Venezuelan women. However, the letter lacks sufficient information to determine what level of 
acclaim the article afforded the Petitioner. 
5 In support of her judging claim, the Petitioner has also submitted an article about the government ofLJ convening the 
2012 regional journalism award. However, the translation of the document is incomplete and therefore cannot be 
considered. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). We note, however, that the translation provided does not reference the Petitioner 
or indicate any relationship between her and this award. 
4 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
The Petitioner published two scholarly articles in the Analisis Financiero y Economico (AFE) 
magazine in 2004, as well as authored two books that were published in 2010, but the record lacks 
evidence demonstratinr that she received acclaim as a result. The record contains a letter from ~--------~! editor for AFE, stating that the Petitioner was one of its columnists "writing 
and coordinating her journalistic columns I I and I I with [the Petitioner],' which 
analyzed and commented on Venezuelan socio-economic events." The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence demonstrating her receipt of national or international recognition originating from her 
articles. 
The Petitioner has authored two books that were ublished in 2010 entitled 
I I andL--------~-~-------' In a letter 
froml I the former principal of the University of he states that the Petitioner 
"has made herself a name as an expert in matters of Social Communication, Advertising and Public 
Relations, but above all, in matters inherent to~~------~---....,,.. .... " He indicates 
that the Petitioner's students, her colleagues, academic institutions, and companies request her advice, 
but the record lacks corroborating evidence to support this claim. Although he states that her books 
"bring us an educational model of corporate social responsibility and public relations applicable to 
Master's degrees, doctorate programs or specializations on journalism, management, economics, 
business and business relationships whose professionals should have an exact knowledge of these 
concepts," the record does not demonstrate that any academic institution has incorporated her texts, or 
that she has received acclaim or recognition from the field for her work. 
Regarding the evidence the Petitioner submitted about her leading or critical role, the record reflects 
that she was the host of the program I I for "Tele~ision a Color, I I I I inl !Venezuela beginning in 1996. I ~he human resources 
manager for the organization, states that the Petitioner's innovative shows helped retain viewers and 
generate new audiences for the company's programming. He states that she broke ratings and 
contributed "to position [the channel] as one of the best TV channels in Venezuela." As discussed 
above, the articles about and awards for the Petitioner's work with this program and channel document 
its significance at the municipal and regional level, but do not establish the requisite national or 
international acclaim. 
Under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), a petitioner must demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim 
and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. The Director held that 
the Petitioner had not sustained her recognition, noting the lapse in time between the recognition she 
received and the filing of the petition. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the regulations do not 
indicate how recent an individual's acclaim must be to meet the terms "sustained national or 
international acclaim." She cites a USCIS policy memorandum which states that "sustained" acclaim 
means that it must be maintained over a long period of time that there is no definitive time frame for 
what constitutes "sustained" acclaim. 6 
Here, after review of the record in its entirety, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she 
has received acclaim at a national or international level, and thus need not address the issue of 
sustainment. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 14. 
5 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
III. CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The record does not demonstrate that she has garnered national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an 
independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-R-R-L-, ID# 2991511 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a marketing and media relations consultant, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, and a subsequent motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was serving as Director of Marketing and Media Relations forl I ~-~I Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the 
published material and leading or critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii), 
respectively. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the awards, original 
contributions, and display criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (vii), respectively. Upon 
review, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
"Most As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner i,resented five awards received b 
Innovative" I J at the "2014 ," "Best Design" 
......._ _____________ at the "2011 ," Robb Report magazine's 
2 
Matter of C-C-
"Best of the Best 20 l lL __ ---f"" _______ __.__'_.' .........,u.......L.........,......._-1..._---, _______ ____J 
category at the 2011 Internationa..___~~~-----~~-------" and "Best Asian Built 
~----.--------~ at the 2014' Awards, jointly organized by Asia-Pac[fic 
Boating and China Boating magazines." 
The Director noted that the above awards were "won by al ~" and that they were "given 
for product design, and not for marketin ."1 For example, the record includes an article in Robb 
Report's "Best of the Best 2011 's ecial issue edition stating that the I ~as 
designed byl land built by.__ ____ _.. Ibis artjc)t does not mention the Petitioner or 
her marketing work. The evidence does not show thatl s awards for its design, innovation, 
and building of various types of1 I were mostly attributable to her work or that those awards were 
in the marketing and media relations field. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive these awards; rather, her employer garnered them. The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the 
awards or prizes, as opposed to her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 Furthermore, the 
information about the awards from the presenting organizations and I I is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that they are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. 
In addition, while the Petitioner contends thatl I received "Best I lof the Year 2013 by 
I IAwardsJ I China," the evidence does not show that her company 
actually won this award. Instead, the record includes a I I 2013 I lpress release 
distributed bv PR Newswire stating: I I 2013 finalist for 
i----...------'l 2013" ( emphasis added). The Petitioner also provided a list of the "2Q.Llj 
wards Winners" from "SPH Magazines Blog," but this list does not identifyL I as 
having won either of the aforementioned awards. Moreover, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that the company's selection as a finalist constitutes a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the Petitioner's field. Nor does the 
evidence show thatl Is standing as a finalist was mostly attributable to her work. For the 
above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 The Petitioner has identified her field of endeavor as "marketing and media relations." 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
Matter of C-C-
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record includes a 2016 article about the Petitioner, entitled '1._ _________ __. 
.__ ________ ____. in Canada.GreekReporter.com. In addition, she provided information about 
GreekReporter.com from its website. This information states that GreekReporter.com operates 
"different local portals" such as '1 I USA, Australia, Canada, Europe, World, Greece" 
reaching an "audience of more than 4 million." Regarding GreekReporter.com's claimed readership, 
USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO, aff'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). The record also includes a Wikipedia entry stating that 
Greek Reporter is a news organization that operates an "online portal consisting of a collection of 
internet news web sites for Greek people and people of Greek descent who live and work in and outside 
Greece." The Petitioner, however, has not presented comparative statistics or other evidence 
indicating that Greek Reporter's Canadian website, Canada.GreekReporter.com, has a readership 
elevating it to major media relative to other news publications. 
The Petitioner also presented various magazine articles from Yates, Yachts Russia, Invictus, Design 
Bureau, Inside Marine, Argos Yachts, and MegaYacht News, but these articles only mention her in 
passing or briefly quote her discussing information about her employer and it yachts. This regulatory 
criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about her do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Furthermore, the Petitioner has 
not presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that the aforementioned magazines' 
readership elevates them to major media relative to other publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that she hosted various 1 I Videos" 
that were broadcast weekly via Y ouTube and Twitter. The record includes information from I I I I stating: I I with host [the Petitioner], is a weekly news show recapping the world's 
top trending international headlines. . . . Great for people on the go, the show runs 5-7 minutes, and tells 
you all you need to know to sound 'in-the-know' at your next dinner party or social gathering." The 
evidence indicates that these videos covered the world's top trending international headlines and were not 
about the Petitioner. Nor has she demonstrated thatl lis a form of major media. The Petitioner 
has not established therefore that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that she revolutionized the presentation of yachts at industry exhibitions through 
ex eriential marketing. She contends that her booth exhibitions recreated the experience ofl I 
.___-+-in_c_l~uding special visual effects and music, and that "[h ]er approach was immediately copied by 
4 
Matter of C-C-
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner provided letters of support discussing her creativity in 
delivering effective I I displays. 4 However, as discussed below, these letters do not offer 
sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, 
to demonstrate the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field 
that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, I I, president of~-----------~ stated: "Transforming 
the traditional exhibition space into an experiential landscar for potential owners, [the Petitioner] 
shook up the formerly conservative, fuddy duddyl _ community and pushed the exhibition 
industry into the 21st century in terms of creative progressiveness and cutting edge artistic styling." 
He further indicated that "[a] side from having shared her vision for I I design, a style 
which has been adopted by many ofc=]s competitors the Petitioner's] artistic expression and 
marketing genius is vividly on displa at each and ever global showcase." Similarly, I I Director of Sales for~-------~' a company that produces! I 
shows in Florida, contended that the Petitioner "quickly set a new bar amongst!, !manufacturers 
and brokers, introducing a new global standard forl !displays, and com[er]ing the arena of 
'experiential marketing."' I I and I !however, do not provide specific examples 
of how the Petitioner's experiential marketing approaches have widely affected the industry or have 
otherwise risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from~------~ President ofl I I la cloud solutions and information technology company. 5 He asserted that the Petitioner led 
"not onl)'LJ but was a forerunner for the whol~ I industry in recognizing that platforms that 
display video content offer multiple layers of engagement. ... This ultimately assisted in the meteoric 
rise thatc=Jrealized .... " The record, however, does not contain sufficient evidence showing that 
the Petitioner's multi-media strategies had a meaningful impact to the overall field beyondl I 
I I The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original contributions 
be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting her employer. See Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she 
did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient evidence demonstrating 
that her work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered eacP-h-=on=e""'". ----, 
4._ ____ ~boted that he previously served as Chief Technology Officer for._l ---~ 
5 
Matter of C-C-
The Petitioner initially asserted that her marketing displays and promotional booths at various boat 
shows meet this criterion. The record indicates that the design and craftsmanship of1 I was 
on display at these commercial boat shows. The language of this criterion specifically requires display 
of the Petitioner's work at "artistic exhibitions or showcases" (emphasis added). Here, the evidence 
does not demonstrate that the work on display was her work product, nor that these commercial boat 
shows were "artistic" in nature. 6 Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on comparable evidence under 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, she asserts that her "preparation of the booths, 
promotional materials, [and] organizing presentations" at boat shows should be considered as 
comparable evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the 
listed criteria do not readily apply to her occupation. A petitioner should explain why she has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
as well as why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 7 
In this case, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily 
apply to her occupation. She has not asserted or demonstrated that she cannot offer evidence that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to meet more than 
three criteria. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that marketing and media relations consultants 
cannot present evidence relating to the other regulatory criteria. For these reasons, the Petitioner has 
not established that she is eligible to meet this criterion through the submission of comparable 
evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The evidence shows that as Director of Marketing and Media Relations forl I the Petitioner 
has performed in a critical role for a distinguished organization. Accordingly, the record supports the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9-10. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 
Matter of C-C-
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of C-C-, ID# 3629500 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-A-A-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. After a complete review of the Petitioner's arguments 
and evidence submitted, we dismissed the appeal, concluding that he had not established that he meets 
at least three criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider our previous decision. 
Upon de nova review, we will deny the motion to reopen and the motion to reconsider. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of S-A-A-E-, ID# 1232896 (AAO June 15, 2018). 
Matter of S-A-A-E-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In an addendum to his motion, dated June 18, 2018, the 
Petitioner states: 
The Service's failure to review and evaluate the three additional regulatory areas under 
8 CFR 204.5(h)(3) to include 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iv); and 8 CFR 
204.5(h)(3)(vi) that were addressed in the Petitioner's response to the Request for 
Evidence establishes that the decision was based on an incorrect application of Service 
policy under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In the factual background section of his motion brief: he repeats his claim that our decision issued on 
June 15, 2018, failed to address the three criteria identified above, relating to published material about 
2 
Matter of S-A-A-E-
him, his experience judging the work of others, and scholarly articles he has written. The Petitioner 
does not identify any other errors in our prior decision. 
Review of the record does not support the Petitioner's assertions. Our prior decision specifically 
addressed the eligibility criteria identified in his motion. We found that he failed to identify any 
published material about him to support his claim to eligibility. We also determined that the 
Petitioner's work as an auditor and accountant did not satisfy the regulatory requirements for the 
judging criterion. Finally, due to the lack of properly certified translations and missing publication 
evidence, we held that the Petitioner had not met the scholarly articles criterion. 
As we did address the criteria the Petitioner claims we overlooked and he does not identify any other 
errors, he has, therefore, not established that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in 
the record. Therefore, the motion to reconsider is denied. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). On motion, the Petitioner resubmits evidence he had previously provided in support of 
the earlier motion on the Director's decision. Upon review of the record in its totality, the Petitioner 
has not presented either new facts or evidence in support of his eligibility for the classification. As 
such, he has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reconsider is denied as the Petitioner has not asserted that our prior decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy. The motion to reopen is denied because the Petitioner 
has not submitted new facts or evidence in support of the motion. 
The motions will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of S-A-A-E-, ID# 3289321 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-H-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she met only one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of G-H-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion for participation as a 
judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) but that she did not meet the criteria for 
awards, published material, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii), 
respectively. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets at least three criteria and that she qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record of proceedings, 
and we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated that she meets the criteria for awards, 
published material, judging, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), and 
(viii). In addition, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that she has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
indicating that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3).1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
2 
Matter of G-H-C-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not provided evidence of national or international media 
coverage through major trade publications or other major media to establish that the awards she 
received were nationally or internationally recognized. Here, we clarify that requiring such a level of 
media coverage is beyond the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which 
requires that the prizes or awards are given for excellence in the field and that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized. While media coverage is one type of evidence that may establish whether 
the prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized, this is not a specific requirement of 
the regulation and exceeds the scope of this criterion. 2 
The record reflects that thp...E.eti.\:ioner received first place for violin at the 2012 I I 
International Competition inL__J The record contains an article published in Asia Economic Daily 
that discusses the Petitioner's first place award at this competition, statinf that it "was first held in 
1991 to commemorate the Austrian 'master of violin violinist I a violin and viola concert 
and competition." The Petitioner has submitted documentation from the website for the World 
Federation of International Music Competitions which provides the details of the competition. The 
record also contains evidence that establishes the prominence of the jurors in the field. 
In addition, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner won second place in the 2010 ~I -----~ 
International Violin Competition in I I Italy. An article from www.teatro.it describes this as a 
prestigious competition judged by internationally renowned violinists, indicating that the 2010 
competition included 64 violinists from 25 countries. Accordingly, based on the international structure 
of these competitions, the distinguished judges involved, and the number of competitors from around 
the world, the record reflects that the Petitioner's prizes from these competitions represent nationally 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such 
evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that she met this criterion, noting that the 
articles in the record merely announced her winning competitions and the evidence submitted does 
not establish the publications as major media. Here, we note that the record contains an article 
published in Asia Economic Daily about the Petitioner that discusses her background in the field and 
the piece she played in receiving the first place award at thel !International Competition. 
This article also discusses the awards she received at other international music competitions. 
2 The Director noted that the translation certifications that the Petitioner initially submitted were not certified as "complete" 
under 8 C .F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3) and then in response to his request for evidence that the certificates of translation do not 
identify the original document. Here, we find that the translations of the documents discussed in this decision comply with 
this regulation. 
3 
Matter of G-H-C-
Accordingly, this demonstrates that the article is about her, relating to her work in the field. The record 
contains circulation details of this publication and its ranking among websites in South Korea, 
indicating, together with the evidence of its viewership, that it constitutes major media. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specialization for which class[fication is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. We aree. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served as a judge at the annual I Concerto Competition, evaluating 
string students. Therefore, she has sufficiently establishes that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 3 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 4 
The record contains a letter froml L the director of thec=J Symphony Orchestra, who 
states that "[the Petitioner] was invited as a soloist for several concerts including the joint concert with □symphony Orchestra and thel National Symphony Orchestra inl I" noting that her 
performance "was essential and critical to the success of the historic performance." He states that 
"[ s ]he was indeed the 'star' of the show, and the advertisements for the concert had her picture featured 
prominently on the front of the programs." He farther indicates that "[e]very performance she did 
with [the orchestra] was highly acclaimed from audienp.e.s ..... .apd critics both in [South] Korea and 
China." I lalso discusses the reputation ofthe[___JSymphony Orchestra, stating that it is 
a renowned orchestra in South Korea that performs over 100 concerts each year and that it "has 
recorded albums that have been nominated for the Grammy awards .... " In addition, the record 
contains an article published in Roma Today, discussing the orchestra's tour in Italy, indicating that 
the0 Symphony Orchestra has been "the undisputed star of the South Korean music scene" for 
sixty years. This evidence establishes the distinguished reputation of the Dsymphony Orchestra. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner's role in the performances noted above and the manner in which she was 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 Id. 
4 
Matter of G-H-C-
featured as a soloist in the joint concert inl O Jdemonstrates that she has performed a leading or 
critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
In addition, the record contains a letter from I I, the former conductor and director of the 
.__ __ __.I Philharmonic Orchestra, attesting to the Petitioner's performances with the orchestra. He 
states that she performed as a soloist with the orchestra in 2004 and as a concertmaster for the 
orchestra's tour in 2005 where "she led the orchestra successrly pertg'ing multi-city tours in 
Germany and the United States including~ University and Hall." He adds that the 
Petitioner performed as a soloist with the orchestra at the annual Festival in South Korea 
in 2012. The record reflects that thel !Philharmonic Orchestra is one of the leading orchestras 
in South Korea with its nationally recognized music festival and that the Petitioner's role as a soloist 
and concertmaster indicates that she performed a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation. Therefore, with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has established 
that she meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, having provided documentation that she 
meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In a final merits determination, 
we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Here, for the reasons discussed below the Petitioner has established that she 
meets this standard. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner began playing the violin at age four, and at age ten she began 
her performing career with the I I Symphony Orchestra. The Petitioner has submitted evidence 
demonstrating that she has performed as a soloist with the~ Philharmonic Orchestra, thec=J 
Symphony Orchestra, the I I Chamber Orchestra, and the I I Philharmonic Orchestra, 
among others. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received second place in the 20061.__~ ____ _.l, .... Ju .... t ..... eru ......... a .... tJ ... · o ..... u ... a....,l 
Violin Competition in German and first place for violin in the 2009 I I 
International Competition in .......,,=====--======; As noted above, the record indicates that the Petitioner 
won second place in the 2010 International Violin Competition inl I Italy. An 
article from www.teatro.it describes thel I competition as a prestigious competition 
judged by internationally renowned violinists. The Petitioner also won first place at the 2012 ~ I !International Competition inl I The record contains an article published in Asia Economic 
Daily that discusses her award and the prominence of this competition. Accordingly, these awards are 
an indication of the Petitioner's national or international acclaim in 2006, 2009, 2010, and 2012. 
The letter discussed above from I l the former conductor of the I I Philharrn"onic 
Orchestra, further explains the Petitioner's role with the orchestra and his involvement in selecting 
and directing her. He praises her performances as a soloist with the orchestra in 2004 and as a 
concertmaster for the orchestra's international tour in 2005. In discussing her role as a soloist with 
5 
Matter of G-H-C-
the orchestra at the annual I I Festival in South Korea in 2012, he states that "[h]er 
performance brought standing ovations from the audience and was most definitely a highlight of [his] 
career." This demonstrates that the Petitioner's role with thel !Philharmonic Orchestra is 
indicative of her national or international acclaim in 2004, 2005, and 2012. 
Similarly, I l the music director of the I I Chamber Orchestra, states in his letter that the 
Petitioner performed as a soloist for the orchestra in several prestigious national and international 
concerts from 2011 to 2013, specifically noting performances in a concert tour to China in 2012 and 
as a soloist at the 20131 I Concert in which she performed with 
several other renowned musicians. As discussed above, the record reflects that the Petitioner also 
played a prominent role as a soloist for thec=JSymphony Orchestra in China and South Korea in 
2012 and 2013. The Petitioner's roles with these orchestras further establishes her recognition in the 
field of expertise and her acclaim during these years. 
In a letter from Grammy award winning violinist I I she states that the Petitioner performed 
with her inl I at a benefit for the United Nations in 2015 and as part of a tour through the 
United States and to Brazil from 2015 to 20ll and that she will continue to perform as part of the 
national and international programs I has founded, attesting to her abilities as a musician. 
This reflects, with the evidence discussed above, that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that her work has been recognized in the field, indicating that she has risen 
to the very top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. She therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofG-H-C-, ID# 3146565 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF D-S-Y-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a creative director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he fulfills three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a creative director at} I inl I New York. 
Because he has not indicated or estab 1shed that he has received a maJor, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record contains evidence showing that the 
Petitioner participated as a judge at an annual reports design competition. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner met the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he "submitted detailed information about more than 30 (thirty) design 
awards," and "[i]t is custom of the competition to grant the award to the creative agency or design 
team." In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt oflesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Here, the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
2 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Petitioner did not receive the awards from 
1...........----,---,---------,----,---,------------,....,....----r-----'-.__ _____ T--:___., and.__ ______ __. 
Rather, the company employing the Petitioner,.__ ______ __, is the named recipient of the 
awards. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be 
on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the 
awards or prizes. 2 
Moreover, this regulatory criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding whether the 
basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or 
awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on 
competitors. 4 Although the Petitioner provided screenshots from the awarding entities I I 
5 regarding background information, he did not offer .__-----,---.,.....,...------,-----,---,........,...~ supporting evidence to corroborate the claims, such as widespread media coverage of the awards in 
major newspapers or other evidence showing the awards' national or international significance in the 
field. For instance, the screenshot from.__ ______ ~ claimed that "[t]he Awards are globally 
recognized, providing a platform for the highest standards in the annual report industry." The 
Petitioner, however, did not offer independent, objective evidence reflecting the national or 
international recognition of the awards for excellence in the field. 
Further, the record does include evidence showing that the Petitioner received I.__ _____ ~ 
"Certificate of Design Excellence" in 2006. Thus, contrary to the Petitioner's assertion, the record 
shows that awards may be granted to individuals rather than exclusively to creative agencies or design 
teams. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. Again, while the Petitioner submitted an "About Us" screenshot 
from I I indicating that its "Print Regional Design Awards" is "one of the most well­
respected design competitions in the industry," he did provide objective, corroborating documentation 
to establish the award's national or international recognition of excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on membership with the Art Director's Club 
(ADC) and the American Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA). In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors fi-om a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
5 The Petitioner did not provide any documentation relating tol ~ awards. 
3 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 6 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted "What is ADC?" and "About 
AIGA" screenshots from the associations' websites. 7 Although the screenshots relate to the 
background and history of ADC and AIGA, the Petitioner did not provide the membership 
requirements, so as to demonstrate that their memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their field consistent with the regulation at 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on "submitted articles about his original work." 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material "about the alien" in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 8 In the case here, the Petitioner presented screenshots about branding, marketing, and ~ projects for various comranies such as .__ ______ __. I 11 I 
L__ II 11 and Oather than published material about him. Articles that are 
not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 9 In fact, the screenshots never mention the Petitioner, let alone reflect 
published material about him. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field.10 For example, a petitioner may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, we 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
7 The Petitioner also provided screenshots confirming his memberships. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
9 Id (finding that the published material should be about the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field. not just about 
his or her employer or another organization with whom he or she is associated). 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he has demonstrated original 
contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "is clearly responsible for many contributions with major significance 
to graphic and commercial designs as well as marketing and finance through his work creating 
marketing campaigns, corporate annual reports, corporate identities as well as Style Guides, re­
brandings and original artwork and publications" and points to his portfolio reflecting samples of his 
work. While his portfolio demonstrates the originality of his work, the Petitioner did not show how 
his designs have been of major significance in the field. Although work may be "original," this fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 11 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that his portfolio "provides detailed information on each design 
project and [his] leading role on the project as well as awards the projects have won." The Petitioner's 
role on projects withl I land others is more relevant to the leading or critical role category 
of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion that will be discussed later. 
Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we 
will generally not consider evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion. Regardless, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his role with I I and others demonstrates the unusual 
influence in the overall field beyond his employer. 12 
Further, the Petitioner did not show that the awards received by I I reflect that his work 
has risen to the level of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As 
discussed under the awards criterion, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international 
recognition or significance of the awards in the field. He did not demonstrate, for example, the 
substantial impact his designs have had in the greater field or explain how they are otherwise majorly 
significant in the field. 
Likewise, the Petitioner argues that his work "garnered positive reviews for their innovativeness from 
design and business publications" and references the media articles discussed under the published 
material criterion. Although the articles report on companies rebranding their names, images, logos, 
and etc., the media reports do not discuss how the Petitioner's work has unusually influenced the 
greater field. For example, the Petitioner provided an article entitled, 1 .... ___________ _. 
from New York Magazine in which the company's annual report is 
complimented as being "good-looking."13 Here, the article does not indicate that the Petitioner's 
design significantly impacted the overall field beyond I 114 Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that his work received significant attention from the press in a manner with major 
significance in the field. 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
13 While we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and evaluated each one. 
14 The record also contain a letter froinl I vice president at=========== who also indicated that the 
Petitio.ner "help[ed] communicatd,_ _____ _.~arrative and the year's achievements and trends throu:h a distinctive 
theme, often with infographics, text and interactive displays using digital design." While I J discussed the 
Petitioner's work contributing tol I he did not indicate or show how the work is of major significance in the 
overall field. 
5 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Finally, the Petitioner claims that letters written on his behalf show "the tremendous significance his 
original designs have in a variety industry." Although the letters confirm his work on design projects 
and praise his talents and abilities, they do not explain or indicate how the Petitioner's work is 
considered original contributions of major significance in the field. For instance,! I 
founder and creative director fotl I stated that the Petitioner "was instrumental in the 
design and production of the year 2000 annual reports for .__ __________ ~ __ _.and I ~ and "is a remarkable talent who not only possesses an impressive creative 
mind but also true sense how business works and how to apply his abilities to help clients reach their 
business goals."15 Her~,I ldid not articulate the significance of the Petitioner's work in the 
greater field. Further, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has 
already used those skills and abilities to impact the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
Moreover, the letters generally assert that the Petitioner made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For example,! . I managing director for~-------~and I I president ofi J t,',oth claimed that the Petitioner "is responsible for 
many original contributions of major significance to the fields of design, commercial graphic design, 
branding, annual report design, editorial design, and web design for his projects and the projects of his 
clients." The identical language calls into question whether the letters were independently prepared 
by the authors, and therefore diminishes their probative value in establishing that the Petitioner's 
original contributions qualify for this criterion. Moreover, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Regardless, the letters do not contain detailed, probative 
information that identify the Petitioner's contributions and explain their major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not reflect detailed information explaining how his original 
contributions are tantamount to major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value.16 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.17 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
15 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
17 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he "played a leading and critical role not only as a creative director at 
I I his emjloY,er from 2002 to October 2018, but also as a senior graphic designer at I in I I and I I in I I and as a senior art director at I I in I I and references recommendation letters. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence 
must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 18 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 19 
The letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's essential roles to the companies.2° For instanceJ I 
claimed that the Petitioner "played a leading role at our agency and also served as a design and 
communications expert to client companies with prominent reputations in the creation and use of 
corporate and cultural literature, annuals reports, promotional and marketing pieces, and design 
solutions for Canadian companies." Moreover, I I indicated that the Petitioner "worked 
closely with our creative director as a member of a design team involved in work for such noted 
companies as'=====.----------'" Further,! I stated the Petitioner "played a 
leading role atl I and "managed client accounts and projects including the design and execution 
of annual reports and corporate identity systems." Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's 
employment, they do not reflect detailed, probative information demonstrating the specific nature and 
outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. 
On the other hand, I I principal for ~----~ detailed the Petitioner's 
responsibilities and specified his accomplishments contributing to the overall successes of the 
company. Therefore, the Petitioner demonstrated that he performed in critical role forl I 
However, this regulatory criterion also requires that a petitioner perform in a role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 21 While the record contains screenshots from 
I Is website, they do not indicate that the business enjoys a distinguished reputation. In 
addition, the self-promotional website includes "About Us," 'Testimonials," and "News & Views" 
screenshots without showing the reputation of the company. Moreover, as discussed under the awards 
criterion, the Petitioner presented evidence of the company's receipt of various awards, but he did not 
demonstrate the significance or relevance of them. Further, although he stresses that "[t]he client 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
19 Id. 
20 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
21 Id. at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
7 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
companies are regularly recognized as leaders in their industries by receiving the Fortune 100 or 
Fortune 500 designations," the Petitioner did not show that workin on projects for other companies 
with distinguished reputations necessarily establishes that also en·o s such a reputation. 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence portraying .___ ___ ____.s standing in the 
field. 22 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The record contains a 2017 letter froml I who stated that "[w]e asked [the Petitioner] to 
joinl I in 2002 as a senior gralhic designer," and "[w]e promoted [the Petitioner] to 
creative director." Moreover.I indicated that "[t]he position of Creative Director is a 
high-ranking position within design firms." Further.I ~pecified that the Petitioner's 
annual salary is $126,000 and his "performance also always qualifies him to receive our highest paid 
bonus." In addition, the Petitioner submitted Form W-2 for 2016 and 2017 reflecting gross wages, 
tips, and other compensation of $145,000 and $144,500, respectively. In order to satisfy this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to others in his field.23 Although the Petitioner provides comparative salary 
information, discussed below, he does not argue, nor does the record include, evidence demonstrating 
that any of his additional bonuses or other incentives are significantly high in relation to others. Thus, 
we will evaluate the record to determine whether the Petitioner commanded a high salary ($126,000) 
compared to others in his field without considering any bonuses or other compensation as part of his 
salary. 
The Petitioner provided screenshots from flcdatacenter.com for salaries of graphic designers from 
various geographic locations in the United States, including! I and from designcensus.org for 
salaries of overall designers in the t,nited States. However, the Petitioner's position with I I 
I I is a creative director, and he earns a salary as a creative director. Thus, the Petitioner did not 
compare his salary as a creative director "in relation to others in the field." See Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the screenshots from onetonline.org includes the position of 
creative directors with graphic designers. However, as indicated inl Is letter, the 
positions of graphic designer and creative director have distinguished responsibilities and receive 
different compensation. Moreover, the fact that onetonline.org combines multiple job titles into one 
does not establish that the Petitioner earns a high salary as a creative director compared to the website's 
definition of a graphic designer. Regardless, the screenshots only reflect the national median wages 
22 In addition, the record does not contain corroborating evidence establishing the distinguished reputations for I I I ~~ 
5 5 
23 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
of graphic designers rather than the high salaries of creative directors in the~l ___ ~INew York 
area. 
Similarly, the Petitioner presented screenshots from aiga.org reflecting that the 2014 national median 
total cash compensation for agency or design directors was $100,000 and in-house creative or design 
directors was $75,000. Notwithstanding that the Petitioner provided outdated data, the information 
relates to national median compensation rather than evidence of high salaries of creative directors in 
th~ IN ew York area. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from payscale.com reflecting that the average national 
salary for creative directors is $86,735. In addition, the screenshot shows that the average salary range 
of creative directors in the United States is between $46,108 and $154,325, with the 75th percentile 
earning around $120,000, similar to the Petitioner's salary. Thus, even considering average national 
salaries, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he commands a high salary in relation to other creative 
directors. 24 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner argues that "a commercial graphic designer is closely related to business as it forms a 
key part of each advertising and marketing campaign as well as representing the identity of the 
business through visual communications." Moreover, he contends that "documentation showing [his] 
membership in professional associations and major media coverage of his design projects also can be 
considered comparable evidence." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 25 A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 26 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. The 
fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that satisfies at least three is not evidence that a 
creative director could not do so. Again, the Petitioner claimed to fulfill seven criteria. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish why his evidence, which did not demonstrate his eligibility for the 
membership and published material criteria, should then be considered as comparable evidence under 
24 We note that the Director indicated that "[i]t is worthwhile to remark that payscale.com indicates that creative directors 
inl I New York can earn up to $164,143 [for total pay]." The Petitioner does not contest or address the Director's 
finding on appeal. 
25 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
26 Id. 
9 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
those same criteria. In addition, the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly comparable" 
to the criteria listed in the regulation. 27 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies for additional criteria through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
27 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
10 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of D-S-Y-P-, ID# 3627741 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF N-K-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 9, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a trek and expedition guide to mountain climbers, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visa available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition 
Alien Worker. We subsequently dismissed the Petitioner's appeal.1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider and a motion to reopen. Upon review, we will 
deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
evidence if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at 
least three criteria, we will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 2 
1 See Matter of N-K-S-, ID# 1646720 (AAO Oct. 23, 2018). 
2 See Kazarian v. users, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. users, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
Matter of N-K-S-
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
The Director denied the pet1t10n, finding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On motion, the Director affirmed his decision 
but found that the Petitioner fulfilled one criterion, leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, we withdrew the Director's determination regarding the leading or 
critical role criterion and concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the criteria, as well as the 
requirements for comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that he satisfied 
at least three criteria. In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner presents additional documentation relating 
to three of the criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. Further, the new evidence submitted 
in support of the motion to reopen does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied any criteria. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner contends that he meets four criteria, as 
well as an additional criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. He does not, however, 
specifically argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Instead, 
he makes assertions of eligibility under the respective evidentiary criteria without addressing our 
decision except for our finding as it relates to the published material criterion. Disagreeing with our 
conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradict 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 
Matter of N-K-S-
submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
decision). Here, we will address below the Petitioner's references to the published material criterion, 
along with his argument for comparable evidence, and discuss his new claims of eligibility and 
submission of new evidence under the motion to reopen section. 
Regarding the published material criterion, the Petitioner references an article published in the Golden 
Transcript and asserts that we "referred only as the participant of the event however the Event was 
organized acknowledge the Mountaineering and the achievement/struggle" (note: errors in the 
original text have not been changed). The record reflects that we found that although the article was 
about his work in the field, he did not demonstrate that the Golden Transcript constituted a 
professional or major trade publication or major medium. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 3 Here, the 
Petitioner did not address or dispute our finding or establish that the Golden Transcript is a 
professional or major trade or other major medium. 
As it relates to comparable evidence, the Petitioner contends that "we discuss on two more criteria that 
needs to be evaluated through comparative evidence." However, the Petitioner only makes arguments 
relating to one criterion, awards. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner asserts that "the praises to [him] 
should be seen as award[s] he achieved from his hard work, skills and knowledge in the field." In our 
decision, we thoroughly analyzed and discussed his arguments relating to comparable evidence and 
determined that he did not demonstrate that the regulatory criteria do not readily apply to his 
occupation and that the evidence in the record is comparable. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).4 Although 
he continues to make claims regarding the inapplicability of "many of the Regulatory criteria" and 
"the Historic Lack of Acknowledgement Sherpa Achievements," he did not substantiate his assertions 
through documentary evidence, nor did he show how we previously erred or incorrectly applied 
policy. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the criteria do not readily apply to Sherpas and 
mountain guides and why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claimed to meet four criteria without the submission of comparable 
evidence, including memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that Sherpas or mountain 
guides cannot present evidence relating to the other criteria, such as awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The fact that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation that fulfills at 
least three is not evidence that an individual could not do so or that it does not readily apply. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not show how receiving "praises" is truly comparable to receiving lesser 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12 (stating that a petitioner should explain why he has 
not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why 
the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)). 
5 In fact, we pointed out in our decision that the Petitioner undermined his own argument when he claimed comparable 
evidence for published material and submitted a New York Times article about Sherpas, confirming that published material 
does readily apply to his occupation. 
3 
Matter of N-K-S-
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. As such, the 
Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies for an additional criterion, as well as other criteria, through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
~viously determined that the Petitioner's membership with the 
L__J did not satisfv the membershio criterion. On motion the Petitioner indicates his membershio 
with the 
I and I I He submits a letter froml c==.; lchief administrative officer forl l who confirmed the Petitioner's membyshi~p-l w-1-·th ..... 
L__J. In addition, he presents a letter froml I general secretary for who 
claimed thatl hs an exclusive association that limits its membership to only those elite 
mountaineers who have been successful in summiting the highest mountain in the world." We note 
that the Petitioner does not offer on motion any additional documentation regarding I I and I I Regardless, the letters do not demonstrate that the associations require outstanding 
achievements for membership, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field 
of expertise. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 6 Moreover, whilec=J limits membership to those who 
have summited Mt. Everest, the Petitioner did not show that I I membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, we found that his recommendation letters did not establish that he made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 7 On motion, the 
Petitioner discusses letters that have already been submitted, reviewed, and considered; accordingly, 
we will not address them in this proceeding. The Petitioner presents three additional letters reflecting ~ instances where the Petitioner assisted and rescued climbers. For example,! I 
L__J indicated an occasion when the Petitioner "worked very hard to rescue the injured and bring 
back bodies" as a result of a helicopter crash. Moreover,! I recounted a time when the 
Petitioner "stage[ d] and execute d a hi h-altitude rescue from the summit of Mt. Everest that would 
have resulted in the death of an I I climber, if [the Petitioner] had not 
succeeded." Further, .__ ____ _.described the Petitioner's "expertise in the rescue and body 
recovery efforts after the 2014 avalanche." As discussed in our appellate decision, while we recognize 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6-7 (providing an example of admission to membership 
in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
7 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Matter of N-K-S-
the personal impact he has had in rescuing others on Mt. Everest, he did not demonstrate that his 
contributions rise to a level of major significance in the overall field. 8 
As it relates fo the )eadjng o: critical role criterion, we determined that the Petitioner's submission of 
a letter from._ ______ _.J the co-owner and program director for I I demonstrated that he performed in a leadership role or wa~s_c_r-it-ic_a_l_t_o-th-e-su_c_c_e_s_s_o_f __ -th-e~ 
organization. See 8 C.F-f. § 20(5(h)(3)(viii). 9 Moreover, we found that the Petitioner did not provide 
objective evidence from website to corroborate its claims of a distinguished reputation.10 On 
motion, he presents another letter froml I who indicated that the Petitioner "has a very 
unique skill set that includes strong interpersonal skills working with guides and clients, high altiµ.ide.., 
adaptation, and the technical climbing techniques necessary for this demanding job." Althoughl_J I praised the Petitioner for his skills, he did not establish that those skills resulted in a leading 
role or contributed to the overall success ofc=J Here, I I updated letter does not 
contain specif\c detailed information refl~ the nature of the Petitioner's role withD 11 In 
addition, whil~ I claimed thatL_j "is one of the largest mountain guide services in the 
world," the Petitioner did not offer any supporting evidence showingDs distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate that he has fulfilled at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria.12 In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met 
8 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10 (indicating that the evidence must either establish that the 
individual is or was a leader or that he contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities). 
10 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction. 
or excellence). 
11 Id. at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
12 As the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Moreover, we need not consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his 
area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
5 
Matter of N-K-S-
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of N-K-S-, ID# 3463758 (AAO July 9, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-P-D-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 10, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a table tennis coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a table tennis coach. As he has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director held that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria for awards, membership, published material, original 
contributions of major significance, display, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii), (iii), (v), (vii), and (viii). Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not met this criterion. In referencing the awards received by 
the players the Petitioner coached, the Director held that in order for him to meet this criterion he must 
be the recipient of an award for his role as a coach. The Director then acknowledged an award the 
Petitioner received for his work with the I ltable tennis team, but he held that the record did 
not establish what criteria was used to give this award. The Director also held that he had not shown 
that this amounted to a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has received distinguished awards and honors for excellence in 
the field as a top international table tennis coach. The record contains an article from the s orts section 
of thel !Daily newspaper entitled, " 
states that the Petitioner "received the trophy from [the] President of the.__ _______ ___, 
2 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
,I l who congratulated him for his work for the 
~d_e_v_e-lo_p_m_e_n_t_o_f_T_a_b_l_e~Tennis inl land the region." The record contains another article about 
this award from the sports section of the I I Daily newspaper entitled, 
.__....,.....,--.,.....----....,......,.....---,-,1' which has a photograph of the Petitioner rec~e_i_v-in_g_a_t_r_o_p_h_y_. _T_h__.e 
Petitioner has not explained how this represents a nationally or internationally recognized award or 
submitted evidence that would establish this award as having the level of recognition required under 
this criterion. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this 
award represents a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, as 
required to establish eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he noted that the Petitioner had submitted evidence 
showing that he is a member of several table tennis associations but that the record did not establish 
that these required outstanding achievements of their members. Following receipt of the Petitioner's 
response to the RFE, the Director held that the Petitioner had not submitted the constitution or bylaws 
that discuss the membership requirements of these organizations, noting that letters discussing 
membership are not primary evidence. In the appeal brief, the Petitioner states that "the record 
contains clear evidence of [his] extensive coaching credentials with highly competitive, distinguished, 
and selective international athletic organizations including the 
" 
With the exception of one identification card from the Sport Association ofl I we note that 
the record does not contain direct evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner has membership in any 
organization, including those noted above. Rather, the record contains several letters from individuals 
who have worked closely with the Petitioner that reference his affiliation with those organizations, but 
these letters do not attest to his membership in them. The documentation from these organizations in 
the record pertains to the coaching certification courses he has taken, but these do not expressly 
indicate his membership in the organizations. 
Second, even if the record contained evidence of his membership in these organizations, the Petitioner 
has not shown that they require outstanding achievements as a prerequisite for membership as judged 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. He contends on appeal that the record 
demonstrates that these organizations "only select coaches and athletes of the highest caliber for 
membership and participation in their activities," but he has not provided evidence supporting his 
assertion. Additionally, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how being a "high caliber" coach or player 
constitutes an outstanding achievement to meet the requirements of this criterion. Here, the Petitioner 
has not provided documentation of the criteria these organizations use for granting membership or 
documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of those individuals judging an applicant for 
admission. 
3 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
While the record does contain an identification card from the Sport Association ofl lwithin 
the I I the Petitioner has not established that membership in this organization is based on 
outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
The record does not contain the organization's bylaws or similar evidence demonstrating the criteria 
upon which its membership is based, nor does it establish that nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field are the judges of an individual's achievements for membership in this organization. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the articles submitted do not meet this criterion because they are not primarily 
focused on the Petitioner. The Director farther concluded that the Petitioner had not demonstrated 
that the material was published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has significant published material about his coaching career 
that was published in major international media. He specifically notes that the record includes "media 
articles and high-level competition results for the distinguished athletes and team(s) he has coached." 
Here, we find that the majority of the publications in the record quote him in discussing competitions 
that his players are involved in, but the Petitioner has not explained how these articles are about him. 
Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
about a show are not about the actor). 
As discussed above, the record also contains two articles from the sports section ofthel I Daily 
newspaper. While a portion of these articles discusses the Petitioner's work in developing table tennis 
in the region, the focus of them is on the I I table tennis team, and the Petitioner has not 
explained how the are about him. Both titles of these articles discuss the team or the players under 
the headlines and 'l ~ 
While the latter article contains quotations from the Petitioner and a 
photograph of him receiving an award, the titles correspond with the substance of the articles that are 
focused on the team. Additionally, even if the Petitioner had established that these articles are about 
him, he has not provided documentation of the circulation details of these publications or other similar 
evidence to establish that this material represents publications in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
4 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). The term "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion due to his "massivication" recruitment and 
development program that he implemented at Club I I the 
I I and th~el===.--------------,-----tJ. Specifically, he states that his 
,:;.=:..i.... ___ __. represents an original contribution of major significance because he turned 
the club int __ __....,"most acclaimed youth table tennis program" from 1998 to 2015. He also states 
that several~--~ media articles cite his contributions to the sport. For the I I he states that 
his original contributions are established through the evidence of the various youth development 
recruitment programs he has instituted over the past three years, and he asserts the same is true for his 
involvement with thd I 
Withd~espect t~ ris work with Club I I and as discussed above, the record contaffis an article 
in th Daily newspaper indicating that the Petitioner received a trophy from the president 
of the The article states that the president of the I !congratulated the Petitioner for his 
work on "the development of Table Tennis i~ land the region." While this demonstrates the 
successes the Petitioner had in coaching at Club I I and in the region, the Petitioner has not 
described how these successes or his "massivication" program indicates that he has made original 
contributions that have had a significant impact in the field, and he has not submitted supporting 
documentation to establish this. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036; aftd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 
(holding that the petitioner had not established how his contributions had influenced the field to equate 
to contributions of major significance). 
Regarding the Petitioner's work with the.__ ________ _,, the record reflects that he has 
successfully helped grow the sport of table tennis through his involvement with these organizations in 
these areas where he has worked, but he has not shown how this work constitutes original contributions 
that have significan · d. The record contains two letters froml I chief 
executive officer 'r""""-----, ___ __p describing the Petitioner's roles with these organizations. In 
his second letter, .__ __ _. states that as head coach of the I J the Petitioner has coached top 
I I table tennis players who have achieved high levels of success, one of whom is ranked second 
of boys under 14 years of age in the I I and another is ranked first in boys under 12 years 
of age. While the impact of his coaching for these two young men is notable, in addition to the other 
individuals the Petitioner has coached that we will discuss further below, he has not explained how he 
has made original contributions as a coach that have impacted the field of table tennis . 
.__ __ ___.lalso states that the Petitioner has initiated numerous physical education programs in schools, 
table tennis clinics, and coaching camps, and that he has organized youth tournaments and I I 
school competitions in Wisconsin. However, the Petitioner has not explained how these physical 
education programs represent original contributions that have significantly impacted the field. Letters 
from experts may add value if they specifically articulate how a petitioner's original contributions are 
5 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
of major significance and what impact they had on subsequent work, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 1 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion on account of the number of athletes he has 
coached who have reached high levels in their sport. The r,card contains a Jetter froml I I I the general coordinator for the! , 1 6 I I Center in the city of ~------~2 He states that the 
Petitioner "initiated the work of forming a high performance competition team of 150 players th~ 
had great results at the state level." He indicates that the Petitioner trained players "such as L_J I IJ !Junior Team 2004) andl M lwho represents I land is the Best player of the Americas in Class 10 and ranked Top 20 internationally) who were 
in numerous international championships, World Games, Pan-American Games, and the 201 ~ I I" The Petitioner also provided a letter from I I in which h~e-c-la-im-s~ 
that he has no doubt that the training, support, and motivation that he received from the Petitioner 
enabled him to have such a successful career. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's success as a 
table tennis coach, he has not explained how the number of individuals he has coached, or the level of 
success they have attained, demonstrate that he has made original contributions that have had a major 
impact in the field. The term "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work 
has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that he has made original contributions that have significantly impacted the field 
to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that he met this criterion because he is not a 
visual artist and has not demonstrated that his work was on display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Petitioner states on appeal that his work has been extensively displayed at major international 
exhibitions and showcases in the sport of table tennis. He asserts that there is no reason to distinguish 
between athletic and artistic exhibitions or showcases. Here, we note that the regulation requires that 
the display of the individual's work is at "artistic exhibitions or showcases," and the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the athletic exhibitions he participated in equate to artistic exhibitions. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCTS/Laws/M emoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf 
2 While we do not cite to each letter in support of the petition, we have considered all of them. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 544 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (citing Chen v. US. Dep "t of Justice, 471 F.3d 315, 338 n. 17 (2d Cir. 2006)). 
6 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner plays a leading or critical role with the I I but that the record 
does not establish that this organization has a distinguished reputation in the field, which the Director 
noted is "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence."3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he meets this criterion for his role as the head coach of the I I 
and as the founder and head coach of the table tennis team Cluhl I The Petitioner states that 
his leading roles at Club was one of the reasons why he was "selected by thel I 
National 01 ic Committee and to represent! I at the 2003 ~-------' 
'---=--------------.-..---------' training course in Cuba." The Petitioner also 
indicates on appeal that his lef ding rote is shown by the recognition he received in 2004 for coaching 
excellence by the President of The record contains a letter frornl I 
the president of the I ~ble Tennis League, indicating that Club I lhas a distinguished 
reputation in I 7as a table tennis club, noting not only its growth in the region, but its 
successes as a club and in developing players who have corn eted at very high levels in the field. This 
is corroborated by the articles noted above in the in the aily newspaper in which the 
Petitioner received a trophy from the president of the~-~ for his work in expandiµg table te~nis in 
the region through Clubl I Accordingly, the record establishes that Clubl~----~Jhas a 
distinguished reputation. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion through his role as founder and head coach of Clu~ 14 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his work on display at international exhibitions or showcases 
should be considered as comparable evidence of the "showcase of his work in lieu of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii)," a criterion that requires "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's work in the field 
at artistic exhibitions or showcases." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 5 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. He 
has not asserted or demonstrated that he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to meet more than three criteria and it has been 
established that he meets two criteria. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that table tennis coaches 
cannot present evidence relating to at least three other regulatory criteria. As such, the Petitioner has 
not established that he is eligible to meet the initial evidence requirements through the submission of 
comparable evidence. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
4 As the Petitioner has established his leading or critical role with Club I I we need not address his role with the I I ~-_. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp, 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of F-P-D-B-, ID# 3157461 (AAO July 10, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Q-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field 
of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry." See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets an additional criterion, relating to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). He maintains that he 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of Q-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's resume and other documents show that he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree 
in mechanical engineering from I I University in Indiana in 2014. The evidence indicates that he 
began working as a postdoctoral research associate at the.__ _________ ____. in Illinois in 
November 2014. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented evidence from professional 
publications -including Nano Energy, Journal of Materials Chemistry A, and Journal of Power 
Sources -confirming that he has served as one of their manuscript reviewers. Additionally, the record 
establishes that he has authored scholarly articles that are published in professional journals. For 
example, Nano Energy published his article I I 
and Nature Energy 
published his article '.__ ____________________________ __, 
I I 
Although the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), as we will 
discuss below, he has not demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 1 that he meets the initial 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCTS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
2 
Matter of Q-L-
evidence requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 2 He claims that he has made original 
scientific contributions of major significance in the field of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and 
Electrochemistry." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record, however, is insufficient to support this 
assertion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). According to supporting documents he submitted when he filed the petition in May 
2017, he had authored 33 published peer-reviewed articles that, according to a 2017 Google Scholar 
printout, received approximate! 720 citations. The rintout indicates that his most cited work at the 
time was his 2013 articl 
'-----~~----~-~------.-' which had been cited approximately 150 times, and that 
his other articles had each garnered a substantially lower number of citations, with some receiving 
none. On appeal, he submits an updated Google Scholar printout and other evidence, showing that he 
has authored additional articles and that his work has received additional citations since he filed his 
petition in May 2017. 3 
While the Petitioner has offered printouts from Clarivate Analytics to support his assertion that his 
articles have received more citations than those of other scientists in related fields, he has not 
established that he satisfies this criterion. 4 He presents incomplete copies of other researchers' papers 
that cite to his work. For example, a 2016 Chemical Reviews article cites his article among at least 
119 other papers. A 2015 Energy and Enviornmental Science article references his paper among at 
least 190 other articles. A 2016 Nano Energy article lists two of his articles among at least 199 other 
papers. Similarly, a 2016 Materials Science & Engineering article cites his article among at least 788 
other references. Citations to the Petitioner's work illustrate that his work has had some impact, the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. L Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update AD 11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-
evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
3 We determine his eligibility by focusing on facts that existed at the time he filed the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) 
(providing that eligibility must be established at the time of filing). 
4 The Clarivate Analytics printouts include data on "baselines-citation rates" and "baselines-percentiles" in research fields 
such as "chemistry," "engineering," "materials science," and "physics." These documents, however, do not provide 
specific information for the field of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry," in which the Petitioner 
claims extraordinary ability. 
3 
Matter of Q-L-
record, however, does not sufficiently demonstrate that his research has been widely accepted, 
implemented, or regarded as authoritative throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field, as required under the 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted printouts from Thomson 
Reuters Web of Sciencej and claimed that his articles are the 635th most cited paper between 1978 
and 2018 on the topic of I' and the 257th most cited paper between 2015 and 2018 on 
the topic of 1 f' However, he has not shown that the citation ranking confirms his work 
constitutes major significance in the field. Moreover, he claims extraordinary ability in the field of 
"Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry," which encompasses multiple topics. His 
influence on two topics is insufficient to verify that his impact in the field, as a whole, rises to a level 
of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his work has been published in well-regarded journals and that he has 
presented at conferences. This evidence confirms that the journals and conference saw value in his 
research and concluded that it should be shared with others in the field. However, such evidence, 
without documented impact in the field, is insufficient to confirm that his work has risen to a level of 
major significance in the field after he disseminated his findings. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. Furthermore, the prestige of a publication or conference might reflect its 
standing in the field, but such evidence is insufficient to establish an author or a presenter's work 
constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations do not 
satisfy 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." See Kazarian 
v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Although the record includes a number of reference letters, they are insufficient to confirm that the 
Petitioner satisfies this criterion. These letters offer details on his professional accomplishments, 
including his judging, reviewing, writing, and researching activities. While they confirm that his work 
has impacted the field, they do not establish that the impact rises to the level of major significance. 
I l an associate professor of physics at thd I university, indicates that the 
Petitioner's "groundbreaking findings" have been published in "highly accredited, world renowned" 
publications . .===========;'also indicates that "[his] works provide the foundation for the current 
research on .__ _____ __. and have "triggered the continuous improvement of capacity of 
electrodes, which is a pre-requisite for improvement ofhigh-energ~ ~" I I 
an IBM research scientist, states that the Petitioner has "made some important discoveries," noting 
that "[ t ]hese are significant findings in the field of energy storage since they present new information 
that differs from previous studies." Other references, including.__ ____ --! a professor o~ ~in at the University;! I a professor at the University of L___J 
L___J , a professor of chemical engineering at the I I Institute of Technology; and 
~--~-~-a_s_e~nior scientist at thel 
O J Laboratory, praise the Petitioner's research 
findings, indicating they are important discoveries that have advanced the field. 
The record, including the reference letters, demonstrates that the Petitioner's work has value and has 
received some attention in the field. The evidence, however, has not sufficiently established that the 
impact or influence of his work has risen to the level of "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian, 
4 
Matter of Q-L-
596 F .3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting to [ a petitioner's] contributions 
in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9 (providing 
that "[l]etters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"). The Petitioner 
has not sufficiently shown that his research -which has resulted in incremental advancements in the 
field, as are expected in any original research -qualifies as contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
Some of the documentation discusses the potential of the Petitioner's work. For example,..,I ___ ~ 
,___ _ ____.I categorizes the Petitioner as a "young" scientist who "shows great promise and potential in 
solving research problems with great scientific significance and applicability." He claims that the 
Petitioner's work "will guide the research and development of a new generation oti I and their 
~ications" and "will revolutionize the next generation of portablr consumer e)ectronjcs "I I 
L_J and I I a group leader and principal investor at_ I Laboratory, 
similarly reference the potential of the Petitioner's research. Additionally, the Petitioner has offered 
a press release :osted onl I University's website, discussinP the potential impact of his work on I J and an article posted on the I j Laboratory website, noting that his 
research "is promising to enable further understanding of nanomaterials formed through microwave 
synthesis." Such evidence, including the reference letters and online materials, speculates his future 
influence in the field. It is, however, insufficient to confirm that he has already made original 
contributions of major significance in the field, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Upon a review of all the relevant documents in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. He has not presented evidence demonstrating that his research has provoked 
widespread commentary, has been referenced as authoritative, or has received notice from others at a 
level indicative of its "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian, 580 F. 3d at 1036; USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. He has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
5 
Matter of Q-L-
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of Q-L-, ID# 3711409 (AAO July 17, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-J-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 22, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a D surgeon and researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, asserting that he fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria and has demonstrated extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of R-J-N-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only one 
of the initial evidentiary criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record 
supports a finding that the Petitioner meets the scholarly articles criterion. For example, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications such as Brazilian 
Journal of Orthopedics and Journal of Spinal Disorders & Techniques. Further, the evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in his field under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) by serving as a member of the resident selection committee at I I 
~--~!Hospital evaluating candidates for admission into its orthopedics residency program. In 
addition, he provided documentation indicating that he has received a high salary relative to other 
orthopedists under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies 
three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
Matter of R-J-N-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he is a physician, medical consultant, and researcher specializing in the 
fields of orthopedics and I I surf ery. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner attended 
medical school at the University of I (1997-2002), completed his orthopedic residency 
training at c:=JMedical School (2002-20r81. and nartic,ated in an "Endoscopy and Minimally 
Invasive I I Surgery" fellowship at the~----~ Hospital in South Korea (2008-2009). 
Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that he worked "' a preceptor doctr ;2006-20161 and assistant 
professor (2009-2016) atc=JMedical School, founder and director of Clinic (2010-
2016), and manager of the Orthopedics Department'sLJProgram at !Hospital 
(2014-2016) in Brazil.2 As mentioned above, the Petit10ner Judged others within the medical field, 
authored scholarly articles, and has commanded a high salary. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive clasyfication See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. As a member of the resident 
selection committee at !Hospital, the Petitioner evaluated candidates seeking admission 
into the Orthopedics Department's residency program. Likewise, he larticirted in the selection of 
medical school graduates for entry into thel I residency at Medical School. While 
the Petitioner was involved in selecting candidates for residency programs at the medical institutions 
where he worked, the record does not show that such judging capacity is indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The evidence does not 
demonstrate, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his service as an 
evaluator of residency candidates for his two employers. Nor has the Petitioner established that being 
given the role of evaluating residency candidates who are in the early stages of their career is reflective 
of extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
2 The Petitioner filed his Form T-140 in July 2018, but has not offered any records of his work experience or medical 
appointments after June 2016. 
3 
Matter of R-J-N-
In addition, the Petitioner presented two certificates stating that he "participated as evaluator of the 
scientific works" forl !University's Medical Congress in 2009 and 2012. These certificates, 
however, did not provide information relating to whose work the Petitioner judged or the specific 
subject matter he evaluated. 3 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that the aforementioned instances of participation as a judge 
place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He has 
not shown, for example, how the number of evaluations or medical conferences he participated in 
compares to others at the top of the field. Furthermore, the record reflects that his participation as an 
evaluator occurred in 2009 and 2012. He did not demonstrate that these two instances contribute to a 
finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59. Moreover, the record does not show the distinction of this conference coordinated by his 
medical institution or that his involvement was indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim placing him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship of scholarly articles does not automatically place an individual at the top of their 
field. Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he coauthored various research articles, 
medical case studies, and book chapters. 4 However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this 
publication record is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of medical 
researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other researchers 
have been influenced by his work. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not shown a level of interest in his published work from others in the 
field that is commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. While the record includes some evidence of citations to his research, the Petitioner did not 
show that these citations represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage 
at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare 
his citation statistics to others in his field of endeavor who are recognized as already being at the top 
3 Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as 
evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served 
in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, 
the Petitioner has not established that his peer review experience places him among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 The record also includes articles the Petitioner wrote tori [ a Brazilian health and wellness portaL but 
these articles are not "scholarly" in nature. Instead, they are written for members of the public at large seeking information 
about medical treatment and care. A scholarly aiticle should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is 
defined as having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 9. 
4 
Matter of R-J-N-
in the field. Nor has the Petitioner otherwise demonstrated that his published work has garnered 
attention at a level indicative of sustained national or international acclaim. 
In addition, although the Petitioner presented "average" wage information from Salario.com.br, 
Exame.abril.com.br, and Terra.com.br showing that he earns a salary that is well above average for 
orthopedists in Brazil, this information is not sufficient to demonstrate that his earnings are tantamount 
to those of an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Without sufficient information or evidence showing the full range of 
salaries for orthopedists, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his earnings represent a level of 
compensation commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the 
additional evidence in the record neither fulfills the requirements of any further evidentiary criteria 
nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's awards 5, he presented letters from the Brazilian Society of Orthopedics and 
Traumatolo SBOT statin that his article entitled I I 
received a "Best Poster A ward" and a "Best Oral 
Theme Award" at the 39th ~----------------------~ m I I 2007. In addition, the record includes information about SBOT ~ web portal, 
including al 12018 announcement and welcome message for the 50thl__J In a · · 
the Petitioner provided a "Call for Papers" and "Paper Submission Guidelines" for the,....;5:....;0:....:t:;:i...-,-~ 
from its website. The record also contains a brief announcement relating to "Ipe Fifth,___ _ ___. Rio 
de Janeiro,! I 1942" printed in Annals o_f Surgery in. I) 942 6 Furthermore 
the Petitioner submitted a 2013 article in Acta Ortopedica Brasileira, entitled [ I 
The abstract for this article states: 
"OBJECTIVE: To quantify the publication rates of papers presented at the 2007 I ) .... 
CONCLUSION: The I !publication rate is lower than 30%. Many of the papers presented at the I ldoes not pass the scrutiny of scient~fic journals and therefore should not be the only source of 
scientific update .... " (Emphasis added). 
While the Petitioner presented information about the 5th and 50thl ltroin its organizers and a 
scientific article analyzing the publication rates of papers from the 39thl Kwhere he received his 
Best Poster and a Best Oral Theme awards), this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate his awards 
from the 39t~ lare nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. In addition, even considering these awards from more than a decade ago, the Petitioner has 
not shown that they are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim or his status among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
5 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
6 This announcement contains an "Editor's Note" stating: "Unfortunately, we received the announcement of this meeting 
too late to include details of the program in ouiO[l 942] issue. However, in the interest of Medicine in South America, 
we are privileged to print the following outline of the Congress." 
5 
Matter of R-J-N-
As further evidence of his awards, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on receiving a fellowship to 
pursue medical and research training at the I I Hospital in South Korea. The record 
contains information from I I Hospital's website stating that its "fellowship program is 
designed to provide fellows with intensive training in diagnosis and treatment ofl I 
and research to meet this growing demand. The fellows will 
~l-ea_rn_t_o_e_v_a-lu_a_t_e_a_n_d_t_r-ea_t_r_o_u_t1-.n-e_a_n_d~complicatedl I .... " The Petitioner has not 
offered sufficient evidence demonstrating that this fellowship for advanced training in his specialty 
rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. Nor 
has he shown that its receipt indicates that he "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the Pe~s memberships 7, he provided ridence indicating that he ij a member of 
SBOT, the BrazilianL__JAssociation, the Society for.__ ________ ____. Surgery, the 
Regional Council of Medicine of Sao Paulo, and the World Institute of Pain. Although the Petitioner 
presented information about these associations, including their admission regulations and bylaws, this 
documentation does not reflect that membership requires outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Rather, the evidence indicates membership is determined 
based on medical training, residency experience, passing examinations, and professional certifications. 
The Petitioner has not shown that these requirements rise to the level of outstanding achievements, 
nor does membership represent an individual who is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field. As the Petitioner has not shown, for example, that he is a member of associations that limit 
membership to individuals with renowned accomplishments, his membership evidence does not 
contribute to a finding that he has sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material8, the Petitioner presented articles in publications such as O Estado de 
Sao Paulo, Caras9, Jornal da Or/a, Jornal de Caruaru, Jornal Local, Mais Equilibria, Saude Em 
Alerta, Rnews, Minuto Biomedicina, Essencia do Corpo, and Melhor Amiga. The record, however, 
does not include sufficient evidence demonstrating that any of these publications are professional 
publications or that they rise to the level of major media.1° Furthermore, these articles are either not 
about the Petitioner, or they do not identify an author. For instance, the article in Jornal de Caruaru 
is about the benefits of exercising 30 minutes each day and only mentions the Petitioner in passing. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he was interviewed aboutl I pain and treatment by Radio 
CBN, BandNews TV, and Radio Globo AM.11 While the Petitioner provided information about these 
7 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
8 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
9 The article in Caras is self-authored by the Petitioner regarding! !treatment; it is not published material 
about him. .__ ___ __. 
10 As evidence regarding the publications in which the above material appeared, the Petitioner offered screenshots from 
Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for each of the aforementioned websites. For example, Similar 
Web reflects that Caras has a global rank of20,224, a country rank of 1,019, and a category rank of 145. The Petitioner, 
however, did not demonstrate the significance of these Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major media. 
11 The transcripts from these interviews indicate that the subject of the programming was I land treatment, and 
not the Petitioner and his particular achievements. 
6 
Matter of R-J-N-
broadcasters, the record does not include sufficient evidence showing that the specific news programs 
or shows in which the Petitioner appeared constitute major media. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that the aforementioned media coverage is reflective of his status as an individual who has 
garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In regard to the Petitioner's contributions to the field 12, he contends that he "was the first surgeon to 
implement a minimally invasive procedure for I I surgery in Brazil." However, according to the 
article he provided in Melhor A1;;a, this '1echniHue was developed and improved by the 
neurosurgeon I I of I Hospital (Seoul)." While the Petitioner may 
have been among the first to introdu: Is procedure in Brazil after receiving training in that 
technique during his I I fellowship in South Korea, the evidence does not show the Petitioner 
devised or substantially improved the aforementioned procedure, or that his specific work otherwise 
rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
The record contains recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's medical training, 
experience in performing advanced surgical techniques, job responsibilities, and professional 
accomplishments, such as completing fellowships, presenting at conferences, and publishing articles 
and book chapters.13 For example,.__ ________ __,, chief professor of ortho~edics and 
traumatology at I I Medical School, indicated that the Petitioner returned from his l.___ __ ___. 
fellowship and "began to perform new procedures with innovative and less invasive techniques 
contributing to the care of our patients and passing on those techniques to our team of specialists in 
LJsurgery, for instance image guideJ !infiltration and microendoscopicl I 
by microscopy." The record, however, does not show that the Petitioner invented or remarkably 
advanced these medical techniques, that his particular surgical methods have affected the orthopedics 
field in a substantial way, or that his work otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
In addition,! ~' head of the orthopedic and surgery department atl I 
Hospital, asserted that the Petitioner "initiated the creation of the Sub-specialty inl !Surgery" at 
that hospital. I I further stated that the Petitioner "participated as one of the mentors for the 
first specialists comping out of the program forl lsurgery." The Petitioner, however, has not 
offered sufficient evidence showing that his work on this project had a meaningful impact to the overall 
field beyond his hospital. The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's 
original contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting his employer. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner are insufficient to show that his achievements 
have been considered by the field to be of major significance. Moreover, they do not contain detailed 
information showing the unusual influence or high impact his contributions have had on the overall 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
12 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
13 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Matter of R-J-N-
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 14 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting original contributions of major significance in the field. 15 Here, the 
letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient 
corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, the Petit~Iered documentation indicating that he spoke at the 39th I I and 
presented a course at L___JUniversity of Sao Paulo. While this documentation demonstrates that 
the Petitioner's findings were shared with others and that he taught a course in his specialty, he has 
not established that his activities in-and-of-themselves show the major significance of his 
contributions. Further, the Petitioner has not established that the number of his conference 
presentations and course offerings is significant or demonstrates the required sustained national or 
international acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
With respect to his positions atl I Medical School and I I Hospital, the Petitioner 
contends that his roles for these organizations were leading or critical.16 The record includes letters 
of support from I I and I O l chief and professor ofc::J surgery at D 
Medical School. These letters discuss the Petitioner's duties as a preceptor doctor atc=]Medical 
School training medical students and orthopedic residents, evaluating candidates for residency 
positions, and sharinF, surgical techniques with other specialists. In addition, the Petitioner provided 
letters froml and I ~' coordinator and professor of orthopedics and traumrology I 
atl !Hospital. Their letters describe the Petitioner's duties as a physician at I I Hospital managing and developing thd !Treatment Project, initiating 
instructional programs, preparing treatment protocols, training residents, and mentoring specialists. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his roles for D Medical School and I I I I Hospital reflect his leading or critical role for these organizations overall. As it relates to a 
leading role, he did not provide evidence to establish where his positions fit within the overall 
bi:rarcbv at =Medical School arl I Hospital. Further, although the letters fromD I _ ~ !discuss the Petitioner's projects in theirl I 
orthopedics departments, they do not indicate that his positions were leading or critical for the 
aforementioned medical school or hospital overall. In addition, their letters do not explain how the 
Petitioner's role was leading compared to these organizations' faculty or I depa1ment heads, nor did 
their statements indicate that his work was of significant importance for Medical School and I I Hospital's success or standing so as to demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, while 
the Petitioner provided evidence indicating that I I Hospital has a distinguished 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
15 Id. At 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in paii 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters the repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
16 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
8 
Matter of R-J-N-
reputation, the information froml !Medical School's website alone is not sufficient to show that 
this school has earned a distinguished reputation. 17 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that his employment in the aforementioned roles was reflective 
of, or resulted in, widespread acclaim from his field or was commensurate with being at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his roles 
at c=]Medical School and I I Hospital were representative of sustained national or 
international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." 18 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act; H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-J-N-, ID# 3681821 (AAO July 22, 2019) 
17 Organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
18 In addition, the Petitioner has not offered any evidence of his medical positions or appointments after June 2016. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-A-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a mathematician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she only met two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of M-A-M-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mathematician at.__ _______ __, College. As she has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the 
Petitioner had met the criteria for judging and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), respectively, but not for awards, membership, original contributions of major significance, and 
leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets these criteria. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director noted that the Petitioner submitted evidence of being awarded fellowships to study and 
research grants, concluding that, without additional corroborating evidence, these do not qualify as 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The Director noted that fellowships are not nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field because only students, and not experts in the field, compete for 
them. He indicated that the Petitioner had not established that research grants are given for excellence 
in the field. 
On apral, Te Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion on account of her research grant awards 
at the University of,__ ______ ____, and at the I I University of Science and 
1 We note that the Petitioner received the 2018 research award atc=J after the date the petition was filed and thus 
cannot be used to establish eligibility. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the illlllligration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
2 
Matter of M-A-M-
[ her recognition awards froJ I College and the Missouri J,__ __ __. 
--------,.-------___.l and an outstanding professor award from the Chi Omega sorority at the 
,__ __ ~!University of Science and Technology. Although the Petitioner contends these awards are 
well-known in the field, she has not submitted evidence to support that assertion or demonstrate that 
these awards are nationally or internationally recognized to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
We also note that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of the criteria upon which these awards 
are based; thus, it is unclear whether they are given for excellence in the field. Documentation in the 
record indicates that thel lgrant program was established to encourage and support research and 
leverage external fonding, and that it seeks to enhance the university's role as a research institution, 
farther professional growth and development, and provide support for scholars. It also indicates that 
preference is given to junior faculty in the allocation of fonds. Furthermore, the criteria for evaluation 
for the award identifies factors such as scholarly or creative merit, likelihood of the proposed project 
resulting in an original contribution to the field, and potential to receive fonding from external sources; 
however, it does not indicate that applicants are evaluated on their demonstrated excellence in their 
fields. Additionally, the record lacks documentation regarding the research grant from the I I 
University of Science and Technology to determine ifit was awarded for excellence in the field. 
Similarly, the certificates and letters of appreciation that the Petitioner has submitted the award from I _ I College indicates it was given for public presentation of intellectual and 
creative scholarship. The certificate from the Chi Omega sorority notes that it was given in gratitude 
for her work preparing students for future careers. Likewise, the letters of appreciation relate to her 
work and participation in mentoring and study sessions. These awards appear to relate to her 
pedagogical work as a professor, rather than excellence in the field of mathematics, as required by the 
regulation. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in thefieldfor which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her membership in the American Mathematical Society (AMS), 
the Mathematical Association of America (MAA), as well as for her position on the Math Alliance 
Executive Board and for being a ~----------~Fellow in 2009. 
In his decision, the Director reviewed the membership requirements for both the AMS and the MAA 
and found that neither organization required outstanding achievements for membership, as required 
by the regulatory criterion. He noted that AMS membership is open to anyone who supports the 
mission of the society, while the MAA had no membership requirements beyond the payment of dues. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director. Although the Petitioner submitted 
documentation about both organizations with the appeal, it does not overcome the Director's concerns 
or establish eligibility. For example, the section on AMS membership in the organization's annual 
report for 2016 welcomes new members, but provides no information about membership requirements. 
Similarly, the by-laws for the MAA identify three categories of membership in Article 2, but do not 
set forth the qualifications for any of them. As such, the record does not establish that either the AMS 
or the MAA require outstanding achievements 
3 
Matter of M-A-M-
The Director also noted that the record lacked information about the membership requirements for the 
Math Alliance or its executive board, another organization the Petitioner claims establishes her 
eligibility. On appeal, she has submitted screenshots identifying her as one of the executive board 
members for the I I chapter of the organization and discussing the history of the 
organization, but provides no evidence showing that the position requires outstanding achievements, 
as required by the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims for the first time that herl !Fellowship in 2009 satisfies 
this criterion. While the record contains screenshots on how to apply for al I Fellowship 
wit~ I University, the material provided does not describe the eligibility criteria 
for the position. As such, the record does not establish that it requires outstanding achievements as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
conducted reviews for the Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, the Journal of Inequalities and 
Applications, and the Malaysian Journal of Mathematical Sciences, among other work as a judge of the 
work of others. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. She 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. She must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Director cited letters in the record froml 11 I andl I, noting that they 
did not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's contributions are consistent with major 
significance. On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional letters attesting to the extent of her 
contributions. However, most of these letters discuss her work in mentoring other students, her 
innovative presentations, and the research grants she has received, but these details do not demonstrate 
how her work has been implemented in the field. For example, I L a professor of 
mathematics at I I College states that "[ the Petitioner] has been a driving force 
4 
Matter of M-A-M-
for the mathematics community at the college, the university and on the national level," highlighting 
her work as a "reviewer for the largest mathematical databases in the world" and as a mentor and 
organizer of research activities. I I indicates that she "has a spectacular talent for motivating 
and engaging students to present their results." She concludes that "[the Petitioner] is an outstanding, 
internationally recognized mathematician that has made significant contributions to her area of 
research." Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afI' d, 905 
F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 Civ. 10729 1997 WL 188942 *5 
(S.D.N.Y. 1997). Furthermore, letters from colleagues that do not specifically identify contributions 
or detail how those contributions have influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d at 1036: aff'd in part 596 F.3d 1115. 
We note that two letters discuss the Petitioner's proposals to the '.__ __________ __, 
Research Initiative," indicating that these were published in the Proceedings of SPIE journal. 
However, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that this work has had a significant 
impact on the field. 
The Petitioner also addresses her scholarly articles and the rate in which they have been cited by other 
scholars and experts in the field. We note that the record contains a Google Scholar report indicating 
that the Petitioner has published five scholarly works that have cumulatively been cited 15 times. 
While the record contains other documentation indicating she had published other scholarly articles, 
much of this documentation has not been translated into English with an accompanying certified 
translation under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Thus, the Petitioner has not explained how her publication 
and citation history demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
In addition, the fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is 
not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient to 
establish eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Furthermore, contributions of major significance connotes that the petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. While the Petitioner submits a 
scholar! article she co-authored with two of her coll ea ues at College entitled, 
she has not '---------------------------------~ submitted supporting documentation that establishes how this has impacted the field. For these 
reasons, and those discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in the 
Journal of Logic Analysis, the Journal of Geometric Analysis, and Topology Proceedings, among 
others. Thus, the Petitioner has established that she meets this criterion. 
5 
Matter of M-A-M-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 2 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather her performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 3 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that her position as a professor at I l the 
University of I State University, I I University of Science and 
Technology, the School of Information Technology, thel I University of Technology, 
and the University of.__ __ _. amounted to leading or critical roles. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner was a professor at these institutions, but she has not submitted any evidence indicating that 
she was in a leadership position to constitute a leading role. 
The Petitioner cites letters from former colleagues at the University ofl I and~I _____ _. 
Universitx, but these do not establish that she performed a critical role at these universities. For 
example,L I associate professor at the University ofl J states that he was 
impressed with the Petitioner's teaching, noting her innovative methods such as encouraging students 
to create three-dimensional models in multi-variable calculus. The letters from other professors 
similarly attest to the Petitioner's engaging manner of teaching students, but the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating how the Petitioner's role as a professor at these institutions was of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities to constitute a critical role. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 IO (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 
Matter of M-A-M-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-A-M-, ID# 3349591 (AAO July 23, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-P-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research associate in therapeutic ultrasound, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief: arguing that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-P-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral research associate at the University of ~------------
1 I Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of two manuscripts 
for a journal. In addition, she authored eight scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles 
criteria. Further, we find that the Petitioner contributed in developing a real-time imaging system for 
an ultrasound therapy for aesthetic improvement I I resulting in a contribution of major 
significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that 
she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
Matter of C-P-K-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to her curriculum vitae, the Petitioner received her bachelor of technology in 
instrumentation engineering at the I I Institute of Technology (India) in 2005, doctor of 
philosophy in biomedical engineering at the University ot1 lin 2012, and master of business 
administration at I I in 2015. Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that 
she held several postdoctoral research associate, research assistant, and internship positions since 
2005, including her most recent appointments as a postdoctoral research associate at the State 
University ofl ~ and D. As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within 
her field, authored scholarly articles, and made a contribution through her research. The record, 
however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner reviewed two papers for Physics in Medicine and Biology in 2013 and 2015. Moreover, the 
Petitioner submitted a letter froml l I I for Ultrasound in Medicine 
and Biology, who indicated that the Petitioner served in the editorial assistantship position where 
"[ s ]he screened manuscripts submitted for publication and checked the format and content to make 
sure each paper could be adequately reviewed." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she 
actually served as a judge reviewing papers in determining their suitability or acceptability for 
publication. Furthermore, the Petitioner offered a letter froml l D.esearch Park, 
who stated that the Petitioner participated on c::J Patent Review Board where she "made 
recommendations to reject a patent application, to request more information from the inventor, to keep 
the invention as a trade secret, or to publish the invention."2 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that her two manuscript reviews, as well 
as her membership on the Patent Review Board, places her among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how the number ofreviews 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
2 I I did not elaborate on the extent of her membership with the Patent Review Board, such as her length of service 
or the number of reviews she conducted. 
3 
Matter of C-P-K-
she conducted or the number of journals she served compares to others at the top of the field. 
Furthermore, the record reflects that her paper reviews occurred in 2013 and 2015. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish that these two instances contribute to a finding that she has a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Participation in the 
peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in 
her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of 
review requests relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or 
publications, or chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not 
established that her peer review experience places here among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored eight articles in professional 
journals and seven presentation papers at the time she filed her petition. However, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991 ). She has not shown that her authorship of eight published articles and seven presentation 
papers is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by her 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner initially provided evidence reflecting 
that her eight published articles garnered 85 citations and her seven paper presentations received 20. 
While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that field has noticed her 
work, she has not established that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
in her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to her research represent attention 
at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has submitted ublished material as evidence of her acclaim. The record contains 
screenshots reporting on as well as the creation of the medical company,! I and its 
subsequent purchase b..__ _ __. However, the screenshots do not demonstrate that the Petitioner herself 
has garnered acclaim from this ultrasound therapy. Rather, the screenshots specifically reference 
another individualj l as the principal investigator and quote him. The press coverage 
of I , 0 I does not mention the Petitioner. Although she contributed to the research and 
4 
Matter of C-P-K-
development ofl I the media reports do not single her out or acknowledge her for her findings. 
Here, the Petitioner does not establish that this media coverage is reflective of her status as an 
individual who has garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. 
Moreover, although she claims to have made additional contributions of major significance, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate they have had remarkable influence in the overall field. Rather, she 
provided documentary evidence discussing their potential impact on the field. For instance, the 
Petitioner offered evidence showing that she contributed to the development of I I an 
ultrasound device for treating musculoskeletal injuries. However, the media coverage reflects the 
possible application without demonstrating that the field already recognizes it as a contribution of 
major significance. Similarly, the Petitioner submitted screenshots announcing the launch of the 
device which indicate that it "is intended to revolutionize the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries for 
people with chronic pain," "will revolutionize the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries, especially for 
people with chronic pain," and "it represents the best possibility of treatment." Here, the evidence 
speculates on the prospect of being majorly significant. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to establish that she received any sustained national or international acclaim and has been 
recognized in the field as being among the small percentage at the very top of the field from her work 
witH I See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record also contains recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's research and original 
contributions but do not demonstrate that she is among that small percentage at the very top of her 
field of endeavor or that she has sustained national or international acclaim. Instead, the authors make 
general assertions repeating the statute and regulations. For instance.I I director of 
cardiology segment atl I, opined that he "would characterize [the 
Petitioner] as one among that small percentage of researchers at the very top of the field of improving 
therapeutic ultrasound.".__ ____ _., professor at I !Institute of Technology, claimed 
that the Petitioner's "contributions to the field have had an unparalleled impact on the advancement 
of therapeutic ultrasound and its usage in clinical settings, demonstrating her extraordinary ability in 
the field and her place among that small percentage of researchers at the very top of the field." In 
additio11 ,I [ associate professor at the University ofl !indicated that "[t]he 
direct applicability of [ the Petitioner's] findings to clinical care places her among that small percentage 
of researchers at the very top of the filed worldwide." Although the letters recount the Petitioner's 
research and highlight her findings, they do not explain or justify their assertions. Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not provide 
sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, 
to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
5 
Matter of C-P-K-
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-P-K-, ID# 3521169 (AAO July 23, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-M-S-, INC. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 24, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a molecular diagnostics company , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Beneficiary satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, in 
which she has to meet at least three, the Petitioner did not show her sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that the Beneficiary 
has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of her field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, located inl I California, employs the Beneficiary as an in vitro diagnostic (ND) 
assay development senior scientist. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the 
Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary met four of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record reflects that the Beneficiary authored approximately six scholarly 
articles in professional publications. In addition, the Petitioner demonstratej that t~e Renefi:iarv 
performed in a critical role in the development of a molecular diagnostic test fo I I I Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the scholarly 
articles and leading or critical role criteria. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not 
concur with the Director's determination that the Beneficiary fulfilled the original contributions and 
high salary criteria. 
2 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that the Beneficiary satisfied this criterion without identifying the original 
contributions of major significance and explaining her determination. In order to satisfy the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has a beneficiary made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, 
have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion, we will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary "is the co-inventor on a patent for 
a new methodology she developed at~------~that is used in a molecular diagnostic test 
for sepsis, which is a potentially life-threatening complication of an infection." In general, a patent 
recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish it as a contribution 
of major significance in the field. Further, the Petitioner provided three recommendation letters that 
discussed the Beneficiary's involvement in the methodology but do not demonstrate that it resulted in 
a contribution or mljor significance in the field. For instance,--------~ professor of 
microbiology at , described the Beneficiary's role in the research group and indicated that the 
method "allows for microbial! I recovery from patient blood sample in less than 45 minutes 
in sufficient quantity and quality for identification by a molecular test." However, I I did 
not explain how the method or patent has significantly impacted or influenced the field. 
In addition, ________ head of the community-university liaison office atD confirmed 
that the Beneficiary "was part of the scientific team that developed an original method for extracting I lfrom various microorganisms in blood infections" but did not further elaborate in explaining 
how the method is viewed in the field as having been of major significance. Instead, I I 
speculated on the potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly significant at some point 
in the future. For exampleJ !stated that "[t]he new method might assist physicians in rapidly 
and accurately diagnosing sepsis, which would ultimately benefit patients, decrease hospital stays, and 
improve laboratory efficiency." Moreover,! I claimed that "[t]he time saved with [the 
Beneficiary's] patented method can be critically important when treating diseases." Similarly, D ~------~ associate professor at the University of I I. asserted that "the 
potential application ... will continue to guide research guide research in the field" and "has thus 
served as the potential launching point for researcher, medical practitioners, and businesses alike." 
While the letters may show promise in the Beneficiary's method, they do not establish how her method 
already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of her method has yet to be determined or measured. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator"s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary's "patent has also garnered a significant 
number of citations, being cited by 20 other patent applications." However, the Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations. In addition, although citations are indicative 
that her work has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
citation numbers represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 2 Here, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that the Beneficiary's citations to her patent are commensurate with contributions 
of major significance. 
Moreover, the Petitioner asserted that D "has licensed the technology to a prominent company that 
is marketing it commercially (though the identity of this company is confidential based on the licensing 
agreement)." However, the licensing or marketing of a product based on the Beneficiary's patent does 
not necessarily show a contribution of major significance in the field. Further, without evidence 
demonstrating the extensive use, application, or influence, the Petitioner did not establish the overall 
field's general view of the technology as a contribution of major significance. 3 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary's "work on the._l _____ _. 
.__ _______ ~ a molecular diagnostic test for I l is another original contribution of 
major significance." The Petitioner provided two recommendation letters that described her role in 
the development ofl I for0 and made general statements without demonstrating the major 
significance of thel lin the overall field. For example, I l staff scientist 
at~ indicated that the Beneficiary "was part of lead to two patent applications," "was actively 
involved in the development as well as in decision making on key design details," and "was one of the 
most senior scientists of the group working on the project." In the case hereJ I did not 
establish how her role m developing I I constituted an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Further,.__ _______ __. senior director for research and development atO stated that theD I l'has major significance in the field based on its improved diagnostic performance and its wide 
implementation." However,.__ ______ __.did not farther elaborate on her claim of "wide 
implementation" to show that the field considers the I I to be a contribution of major 
significance. 4 Further, whilL I indicated that the I I "has generated more 
than $ l 5M in revenue" for LJ she did not establish the impact to the overall field beyond the 
employer. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field. may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisty the petitioner's burden of proof F edin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
4 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact the Beneficiary's work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
As discussed earlier, we found that the Petitioner's evidence, including press releases and promotional 
material from O and indeQendent clinical studies, demonstrated the Beneficiary's critical role in 
developing I I for D meeting the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a 
beneficiary meet at least three separate criteria, we will generally not consider evidence relating to the 
ITdini or critical role criterion. Regardless, while the evidence shows that the Beneficiary contributed 
to activities, the Petitioner did not show the unusual influence or great impact in the overall field 
beyond her employer. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the finding of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary fulfilled this criterion without any discussion of the 
Petitioner's arguments or evaluation of the submitted documentation. In order to meet this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that a beneficiary's salary or remuneration is high relative to the 
compensation paid to others working in the field. 7 As the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary has commanded a high salary in relation to others, we must withdraw the Director's 
decision for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner indicated it its initial cover letter that it has employed the 
Beneficiary as an IVD assay development senior scientist. In addition, the Petitioner provided the 
Beneficiary's 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, reflecting an annual salary of $108,000. As 
a comparison, the Petitioner submitted prevailing wage data from the Foreign Labor Certification Data 
Center (FLCDC) for "biological scientists" reflecting a Level 4 Wage of $92,955 per year.8 In 
addition, the Petitioner offered a screenshot from glassdoor.com for "molecular biologists" reflecting 
a high salary of $93,000. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 The Level 4 Wage relates to fully competent employees. See Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance, 
http://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_11 _2009.pdf at page 7, accessed on July 23, 2019, and 
incorporated into record of proceedings. 
5 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Although the Petitioner compares the Beneficiary's compensation to molecular biologists, her position 
is a senior scientist. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that the Beneficiary has earned a 
high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services 
in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the fully competent wage 
information for molecular biologists constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. Moreover, the 
record contains a screenshot from salarylist.com reflecting salaries for senior scientists. Specifically, 
the screenshot shows that the average salary for senior scientists is $86,781, with $250,000 classified 
as "high." Thus, the Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary earned a salary 
placing her at the high end of the spectrum for wages of other senior scientists. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory 
criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
the petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 
6 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-M-S-, Inc., ID# 3712113 (AAO July 24, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-A-V-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a handball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a handball player with thel !Team Handball Club. Because he has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The 
record reflects that the Petitioner received nationally recognized awards at handball tournaments in 
Russia. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
However, for the reasons discussed later in this decision, we do not concur with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he "was chosen to Olympic reserve," and we have previously recognized 
membership on an Olympic team to meet this criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 1 In the case here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his membership with an Olympic team. 
Although the Petitioner provides a letter from I I for the 
Handball Sports School of Olympic Reserve, she does not confirm his membership with an Olympic 
team. Instead, I I stated that the Petitioner "was chosen to the only national junior handball 
team of Russia (youngsters born in 1994 and earlier for his results," and "he was accepted to the main 
junior team of Russia in the position of the.__ ___ __.' Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish 
that being appointed as an Olympic reserve or alternate, as well as membership with a junior national 
team, is tantamount to membership with an Olympic team. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked the significance of a screenshot posted on the 
website, sobaka.ru. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, 
and author of the material.2 The record reflects that the screenshot, which contains the title, date, and 
author, discusses the Petitioner as a handball player. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
website is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
Specifically, the Petitioner provides documentation showing that Sobaka.ru is both a printed 
publication (Sobaka.ru) and a website (sobaka.ru). Although most of his evidence for this criterion 
on appeal relates to the standing, nature, and history of the magazine, the issue here is whether the 
website is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 3 Moreover, while the 
Petitioner presents a screenshot from sobaka.ru indicating that it receives "about 800 thousand people 
per month," he did not submit independent, objective evidence supporting the website's claims.4 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 The Petitioner did not offer evidence reflecting that the article was published in Sobaka.ru. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self­
serving assertions on the cover a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of major 
media). Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of "800 thousand" visitors per 
month or explain how such information reflects status as a major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of spectfication for which classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
an allied field of specialization. 5 For the reasons outlined below, a review of the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Russian Handball Federation (RHF) confirming that he 
participated as a "referee" at eight handball matches. In addition, he presented "The Book of a Field 
Judge" from the Ministry of Sport of Russian Federation (MSRF) indicating the Petitioner's 
assignment as a "field judge" on four occasions. Moreover, he provided an RHF letter confirming his 
service as part of a 'judging couple" at four handball events. Again, this regulatory criterion requires 
a petitioner to show that he has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
of specialization. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not reflect the duties of a handball referee/judge 
to demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed 
to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Moreover, the record lacks 
other evidence, such as RHF's official competition rules or bylaws for referees and judges, showing 
that serving as a handball "referee," "field judge," or 'judging couple" is consistent with participating 
as a judge of the work of others. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered a letter from MSRF reflecting his appointment to "the post of the 
Breeder of the youth composition of the Handball Federation of thel I region" that will 
"[ e ]nab le the authority to call players to view the team, assign players to tournaments and 
championships of Russia, [and] cancel contracts with players." In order to meet this criterion, a 
petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that he 
actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 6 
Although the MSRF letter indicates his appointment to a post, the Petitioner did not show that he 
actually served in the position. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that his duties listed in the 
letter involved his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfied the regulatory requirements, we withdraw 
the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues that his role as team captain fo~ lfrom 2012 to 2016 fulfills 
this criterion. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a 
leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 7 Accordingly, we agree that the Petitioner performed in a leading role. However, for the 
reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I I has a 
distinguished reputation. 8 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted screenshots of team standings for the Russian 
Handball Super League for four seasons from 2013/2014 to 2016/2017. Out of twelve teams, 
.__ ________ finished .__ __________ __. respectively. Here, the Petitioner did 
not establish how such finishes or standings indicate the team's eminent reputation. Moreover, while 
he provides screenshots regarding regulations for a team's participation in the league, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that membership with the league is tantamount to a distinguished reputation for 
the team. In addition, the Petitioner did not provide documentation, for example, showing the general 
field's view o~ I how its reputation compares to other handball teams, or how its 
successes relate to others, signifying that it enjoys a distinguished reputation consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that his salary is five times higher than the average monthly salary for an 
athlete in Russia. In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 9 He provides 
his 2014 income tax documentation reflecting that he earned approximately 160,000 rubles per month. 
In addition, he submits 2018 average monthly wages for "activities in the fields of culture and sport" 
from the Federal Service of State Statistics (FSSS) showing the average monthly wages of 32,312 
rubles. 
Although he likens his salary to the average wages in the general field of culture and sport, the 
Petitioner did not show that he commands a high salary "in relation to others in the field," such as 
other handball players in Russia. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
5 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). Furthermore, the salary information from FSSS reflects that average 
wages rather than the high salaries of handball players in Russia. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his personal achievements is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofY-A-V-, ID# 3725113 (AAO July 30, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a senior director in project management for a pharmaceutical company, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As that Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director held that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because he met three of the required criteria, the Director conducted a final merits determination and 
concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had risen to the very top of the field with 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
As to the evidentiary criteria, we agree with the Director's conclusions that the Petitioner meets the 
judging, scholarly articles, and high salary criteria. For judging, the record reflects that the Petitioner 
reviewed manuscripts for the journal Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology, and Medicine. For 
scholarly articles, the record shows that he published articles in the following journals: Enzyme 
Engineering, the Journal of Chromatography, and Biochemistry and Analytical Biochemistry. And 
for high salary, the record contains surveys from the American Association of Pharmaceutical 
Scientists indicating that the Petitioner's base salary is high in relation to those in his field. 1 This 
1 This conclusion on high salary is also supported by a report rrom the Project Management Institute in 2017 containing 
salary surveys for individuals in the project management field and documentation from the Career One Stop website, which 
is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor. 
2 
Matter of S-S-
demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether 
he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Petitioner received his bachelor of technology degree in chemical engineering from I.__ ____ _. 
University in India in 2003 and his doctorate degree in chemical engineering from the University of 
~----~in 2007. From 2008 to 2012, he was employed in positions overseeing pharmaceutical 
product development atl I in India, and he is currently employed as a "Senior 
Director -Project Management" for ~---------' in New York. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director focused only on the evidence of his judging and a 
discussion of patents, and that he did not consider the totality of the evidence submitted in the final 
merits discussion. Upon review of the record in its totality, and for the reasons set forth below, we 
determine that the Petitioner has established that he has sustained national or international acclaim and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field to show that he is "one of that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 3 
The record contains evidence of the Petitioner's membership on the scientific advisory council of the 
in India. The record contains three letters ~----------------------' signed by the president and the general secretary of the society describing its purpose and the 
Petitioner's role as a member of the council. These letters indicate that the so was founded in 2012 as 
an international forum for pharmaceutical scientists to share knowledge and that its members include 
"pharmaceutical scientists from the industry, academia, and government." The June 2018 letter refers 
to the "stringent and rigorous screening process" for the Petitioner's admission as a member of the I !scientific advisory council. One of these requirements is that the individual "should be very 
well recognized in the industry for his active participation in conferences and proceedings focused on 
the advancement of pharmaceutical dissolution sciences." The record contains evidence of several 
presentations the Petitioner gave at conferences focused on pharmaceutical developments in 2005 and 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner references evidence pertaining to the criteria for membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which we will consider in our final merits determination. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
3 
Matter of S-S-
2007 in Ohio and Pennsylvania. The record reflects that the Petitioner has served on the I~~ 
scientific advisory council since 2013. Since then, he has participated as a member of the society's 
round table discussion in I I India in October 2013, and that he chaired its session in I [ndia in 2016. Accordingly, the Petitioner's role on this council is a reflection of his 
international acclaim and recognition in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's participation as a judge of others' work, the record reflects that he reviewed 
manuscripts that were published in Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology, and Medicine. In 
addition to his editorial work, he reviews a large number of abstracts as a member of the scientific 
advisory council for I lin support of their conferences. This supports the other evidence in the 
record, demonstrating that the Petitioner has risen to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has made original contributions to the pharmaceutical industry through 
his work in filing patents, his role in overseeing pharmaceutical product development, and his 
collaboration with others in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner was the principal inventor 
for an approved patent while employed at s Laboratories with several others endrg. I II 
I vice president of the'---------~~-.---------- at -======~ .__ _____ __, discusses the importance of this patent for the company, indicating that it forms the 
basis for the commercial batches of one of its key products. Similarly, , the 
executive vice president and chief scientific officer at.__ ________ __., states that "[ w ]ithin 
six months of joining I I, [ the Petitioner] was asked to take up the responsibility of leading 
I I foray into generic injectable business by building a dedicated product development team." I ]then states that under the Petitioner's leadership, his team "has successfully secured 
[FDA] approval for nearly 15 drug products some of which are complex, high-barrier to entry and first 
to market generic products in the United States." I I adds that not only do these products 
"contribute annual revenue of more than $1 OOM for the organization," but they also provide 
affordability to the American consumers, which he notes "really signifies [the Petitioner's] 
contribution and research in the field of pharmaceutical drug delivery." 
The Petitioner also notes his collaboration with top leaders in the field. In a letter from ._I __ ___. 
.__ ____ _.the chair of pharmaceutical sciences at the University ofi I he states that "[the 
Petitioner] is one of the few industrial experts renowned for his accomplishments in the field of 
complex peptide characterization." I ~ adds that "[the Petitioner] actively consults and 
also provides guidance to academia and industrial personnel associated with the characterization of 
complex peptides, proteins and biosimilar drugs." The record also contains a letter froml I 
I O I the president and principal consultant for I I LLC, who previously 
worked for the FDA reviewing "industry submissions for new biologics [biological drugs]." She states 
that in her subsequent role as a consultant, she has collaborated with the Petitioner in the development 
of biosimilars, which she indicates are "a class of biologics that are similar to an already approved, 
marketed product." She states that biosimilars "are usually produced in a living system, such as a 
microorganism or animal cell," which brings additional challenges to the manufacturing process and 
requires specialized expertise in "molecular and cell biology, microbiology, protein biochemistry, 
immunology, sterile injectable manufacturing processes, and their formulation in addition to FDA 
regulatory requirements [that] are needed for decision making .... " She discusses the role that the 
Petitioner has played in developing biosimilars for two specific products in particular, adding that "he 
4 
Matter of S-S-
has the specialized expertise to bring these products to patients in the [United States]" and that his 
leadership skills "have allowed ,___ _______ __, .... the ability to fill their pipeline with 
promising biosimilars." She notes that she has collaborated with many companies and their staff in 
developing these products, adding that 'I I is fortunate to have [the Petitioner] leading their 
program." This further demonstrates that the Petitioner's original contributions are an indication that 
he has risen to the very top of his field and that his achievements have been recognized in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's scholarly articles, he notes that these have appeared in highly regarded 
journals in the fields of biochemical and biological science. The record reflects that his scholarly 
articles were published in Enzyme Engineering, the Journal o_f Chromatography, and Biochemistry 
and Analytical Biochemistry. In a letter from I I, the president and chief scientific officer 
atl I LLC, he states that "[the Petitioner] is one of the leading experts in I I 
process development and complex product characterization and has a couple of articles in this field 
that are currently under different stages of review." When viewed together with the documentation in 
the record showing that the Petitioner has risen to the very top of his field, this evidence that he 
continues to author scholarly articles is an indication of his recognition in the field. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has performed leading or critical roles in product development 
atl I Laboratories and I I. The letters in the record discuss the details 
of the Petitioner's work in expanding each company's research and development (R&D) laboratories 
and in facilitating the submission of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for newly 
developed generic products to the FDA The record reflects that the Petitioner has brought significant 
revenue to these companies in successfully leading their product development teams. In a letter from I I chief executive officer of I I who formerly worked forD I Laboratories, he states that the Petitioner's most significant accomplishment at I I 
Laboratories involved setting up the "R&D facility for the Center of Excellence- Peptide and Polymer 
product Development." He states, "[the Petitioner] designed the entire R&D facility and ensured that 
it was equipped [with] state of the art instruments needed for the development of these extremely 
complex biopharmaceutical drug products." At ~-------~ the company's managing 
director, I I indicates in his letter that "[the Petitioner] is part of a rarified group of scientists 
who possess the wide array of expertise on different aspects of formulation development, device 
development, biosimilar development, operations, quality management and also advanced analytical 
characterization." He adds, "[i]n a period of close to 5 years, [the Petitioner] has established the entire 
R&D and manufacturing facility, has built a team of more than 100 scientists and filed close to 50 
Abbreviated New Drug Applications with FDA and secured approval for close to 15 such products." 
The Petitioner's leadership within these companies is an indication that he has risen to the very top of 
the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, for high salary, including his bonuses, the documentation in the record indicates that the 
Petitioner's salary is high in relation to those in his field. This is another way in which the field 
recognizes his achievements. For the reasons discussed above, and in the totality of the evidence, the 
Petitioner has established that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field to show that he is "one of that small percentage who 
[has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3).4 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 13. 
5 
Matter of S-S-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of S-S-, ID# 2591391 (AAO June 4, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-M-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 5, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an artist and repertoire (A&R) executive, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of G-M-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner fas working as senior director for A&R atl I a 
label of I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she 
has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the original contributions and leading 
or critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), respectively. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she also meets the commercial successes in the performing arts criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Upon review, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
2 
Matter of G-M-M-
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner indicated that she has contributed original acts to the music industry, stating: 
[W]ithout [the Petitioner's] identifying eyle, visirn and guidance, the music industry 
would not have artists such asl I I to name a few, 
as we know them today. It is her original thought, her original interactions, her original 
visions, work sessions, her pep talks, and overall actions etc. that spawned these 
original acts and, but for her actions, they would not be part of the industry as we know 
them. 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted information about musicians she claims to 
have developed and various letters of support discussing her work in the music industry. In order to 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that her particular contributions have widely influenced the field, have 
remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. As 
discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions 
that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
The record includes letters from the Petitioner's professional associates asserting that she has made 
original contributions in the music industry.1 For instance) ,I a senior executive for I I an entertainment agency that represents songwriters, producers, 
artists, mixers, and engineers, indicated that the Petitioner "identified the raw talent in and signed 
'1======.---_along with overseeing successful campaigns for Grammy Nominated I I I and British pop sensation! 1"2 He further stated that "those original contributions 
to the industry are because of [ the Petitioner]." Similarly J l partner atl I I l, a law firm representing music industry clients, contended that the Petitioner 
has "brought original contributions to the music business, finding and contributing to the development 
of several recording artists. She has worked with and made meaningful contributions to the careers of 
I 11 ~ I 11 11 I and several others." The 
evidence, however, is not sufficient to demonstrate that the success of the aforementioned artists was 
attributable to the Petitioner's A&R role, nor does the record show that her specific work with them 
rises to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work withl 11 l Senior Partner atl I I I a law firm that represents talent in the sports and entertainment industries, stated that 
1 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 The record does not include letters of support rrom these four music artists discussing the Petitioner's impact on their 
careers or other corroborating evidence to supp01t the references' claims that her work with these artists cons~ 
contributions of major significance in the field. For example, while the record contains various media articles aboutl__J 
and her interactions with others in the recording industry, these aiticles do not mention the Petitioner or her effect on I I development as a performing artisj' Reyrdless, the aiticles and other evidence in the record are insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work with was of major significance in the field. 
3 
Matter of G-M-M-
the Petitioner "identified, signed and developed! Her early work activated his path to 
stardom, and the music industry will never be the same. I cannot overstate the impact [the Petitioner] 
had onl I career, and ultimately the impact that had on the industry as a whole." While the 
Petitioner provided information about I I from articles in Billboard, Wall Street Journal, 
Rolling Stone, Variety, Esquire, and Wikipedia, these articles do not mention the Petitioner or her ~n his · reer. For exam le, the article in Wikipedia states: "After I I sister §m ~ pla ed demo for the A&R at I I, 
summoned to..______,,----,- _ _.' This article further indicated that songwriter and producer I l"introduced to his future A&R manager at.___ _______ ~~-___.' The 
record does not include sufficient information or evidence to show that the Petitioner's work with D ~ constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. 
With res ect to the Petitioner's involvement with.___ _____ ____., I I president of 
~--.======'....:.:a_rroducer and songwriter management com,any, indicated that the Petitioner 
managed~----~ while working tori J. He asserted that the Petitioner 
oversaw and facilitated "the songwriting sessions and the release campaign for I I album ~------~ which debuted the Billboard chart at #3 and achieved Platinum status, and a 
Grammy Nomination." The record includes articles aboutl I in Daily Mail, Billboard, 
and Wikipedia, but they do not mention the Petitioner or her work on the aforementioned album. 
Nonetheless, the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work on that album 
rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In regard to the Petitioner's management of I 11 I, a music artist and 
songwriter, stated that the Petitioner's leadership helped I I break "onto the [United Kingdom] 
market with huge impact and success, topping the charts and becoming the biggest new British pop 
sensation of that time." Additionally, she indicated: "[The Petitioner] reco[nize1 that my songwriting 
style would ble a per1ect fit for the sound and direction that she was guiding towards .... I ended 
up becoming main writing partner and landed 3 songs on her debut album, which debuted at 
#2 on the UK Album Chart." While I I asserted that the Petitioner's management 
helped! I become successful and facilitated their songwriting partnership, the record does not 
show that the Petitioner's guidance of I land work on her debut album represent contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The references' statements and articles relating to the aforementioned artists are not sufficient to show 
that the Petitioner's specific A&R work has widely influenced the recording industry or has otherwise 
risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. Without sufficient evidence 
demonstrating that her particular work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the 
field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The evidence shows that as senior director for A&R au I the Petitioner has performed 
in a critical role for a distinguished organization. Accordingly, the record supports the Director's 
finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
Matter of G-M-M-
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner contends that she "has originated, developed and contributed original artistic acts to the 
music industry" and that the success of these acts "must be attributed to [ the Petitioner] because she 
is the genesis of it." In his letter of support,! btated: 
[The Petitioner and I worked closel to ether with 
songs: to create the ori inal 
.__ ____ ___. which formed their debut record '.__ ______ ~ "' The record is 
certified 4 x Platinum, it spent over a year in the ARIA [ Australian Recording Industry 
Association] Albums Chart, reached #2 on the ARIA album chart, and was nominated 
for 3 x ARIA A wards. [The Petitioner] was instrumental in the launch of their career 
in America and internationally. 
In ~d===: letter indicated that he and the Petitioner "are working together on emerging 
artist c= I and that the Petitioner "has been instrumental in developing I I as a 
songwriter." He further noted that the Petitioner "strategically formulates and creates the session 
collaborations forl I to be able to write incredible material that result in son cuts and releases 
with major recording artists" such as.__ _____ ___, I ,I and I I 
I ~lso asserted that "[ w ]ithout the Petitioner's work, the smash hit '~-~ written by I I and released by pop groupl J would not have happened. It has achieved massive 
commercial success, double platinum status, [and] was a top 5 single" in the United Kingdom. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." Moreover, the 
evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial 
successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 3 Here, the record does 
not include a tracklist or credits for I I or 1 t identifying the Petitioner as 
having created or substantially contributed to these recordings. Nor is the evidence sufficient to 
demonstrate that the commercial successes of the above artists are mostly attributable to the Petitioner 
rather than their own musical talent. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a letter froml l partner atl I 
"a global talent agency based id I" He indicates that he has "been working withl I 
since [the Petitioner] brought them to my attention in 2010." I I further explains that he 
is "responsible for procuring their shows and privy to their live touring earnings, and can attest to the 
fact that in 2015 they earned $8,126,060. In 2016 they earned $6,824,953 and in 2017 they earned 
$4
1879,250 in touring alone." Additionally, he contends that the Petitioner "is integrally responsible 
for! I success as she played a creative and pivotal role in discovering, pac1agingj and 
1makingl 
the group what it is today." While the record includes a letter of support from and 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 11-12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/po !icy-memoranda. 
5 
Matter of G-M-M-
~-~!expressing gratitude to the Petitioner for helping to launch their music careers, the evidence is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that their 2015-2017 tour earnings are attributable to the Petitioner's 
specific work. Instead, ~---------~ tour earnings are attributable to their music 
performances and reflect their commercial successes. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her A&R work are indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
6 
Matter of G-M-M-
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of G-M-M-, ID# 2990891 (AAO June 5, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 5, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of W-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist. As he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the criteria for awards 
or membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii), respectively, but that he did meet the criteria 
for published material and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vi). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the membership criterion. 1 Upon reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion on account of his membership in the Brazilian 
Writer's Association (UBE). The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that his 
membership in the UBE met the requirements of this criterion, noting that the articles of incorporation 
for the UBE do not require outstanding achievements for membership in the association. The Director 
1 The Petitioner has not raised the issue of the awards criterion on appeal. In addition, the Director noted that the Petitioner 
submitted documentation of his book sales as comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) to the commercial success 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The Director stated that this evidence would not be considered because the Petitioner 
had not established why the standards of commercial success do not readily apply to his occupation. The Petitioner has 
not raised this issue on appeal. 
2 
Matter of W-S-
also held that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence to establish that UBE's membership 
applications were judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides the directory of the board of directors for the UBE with a description 
of each member's background and career history. The Petitioner highlights the section of the UBE 
articles of incorporation which state that the directors will approve the membership applications. We 
note that the documentation about the directory of the board of directors is a computerized translation 
and lacks the required certification of accuracy. Any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation in which the translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). Here, the Petitioner has not submitted such 
a certification for us to validate the accuracy of the translation. 
We note that these articles of incorporation are for the I I Chapter of the UBE, but neither 
the Petitioner's UBE identification card nor any other evidence in the record indicates that he is a 
member of that chapter. Nor does the record demonstrate that these articles of incorporation apply to 
the entire UBE organization. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). Furthermore, the record does not demonstrate that the members of the board of directors, 
identified as part of the I I Chapter, approve membership applications for entire 
organization, or that those who judged the Petitioner's achievements are recognized as national or 
international experts in their field. 
Even if the Petitioner resolves the concerns noted above, he must establish that the UBE requires 
outstanding achievements as a prerequisite for membership. The articles of incorporation state six 
criteria that may qualify an individual for membership. Specifically, they allow for evidence that the 
applicant is an author of certain items under paid copyright, including being an author ofliterary books, 
of at least 20 articles in magazines or newspapers, or of a theatrical work or similar artistic work 
performed on stage. Other criteria allows for membership where, within the past five years, the 
individual has published scientific or technical work in a book or has authored a screenplay for a movie 
that has been filmed. A final criterion allows for evidence showing that the applicant is an author of 
any unpublished work that "has been awarded or achieved an honorable mention in any reputed literary 
contest." If none of the above apply, the articles also indicate that someone can join through attestation 
by other members that that the individual is a writer. Here, although the Petitioner claims that being 
an author under paid copyright demonstrates outstanding achievement, he has not submitted evidence 
to support his position. Accordingly, the record does not reflect that the UBE requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he has membership in 
an association that requires outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field in order to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
2 We note that the Director also addressed the Petitioner's membership in the International Press Association (IP A), 
concluding that the evidence submitted from the IP A did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner has 
not raised this issue on appeal and therefore, we will not consider it. 
3 
Matter of W-S-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director noted that the record contains articles about the Petitioner that were published in Mix 
Cultural, Toda Dia, and Tribuna Liberal, concluding that this latter publication is a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media. Accordingly, the Director held that the Petitioner met 
this criterion. 
Here, we disagree with the Director and find that the published material in Tribuna Liberal is not about 
the Petitioner. 3 One article from that publication, entitled 
~-------------~ 'references the Petitioner as the director, screenplay, and editor, 
but focuses on the film and the individual who inspired it. The record also contains a Tribuna Liberal 
article entitled, ~----------------------------~ This 
article quotes the Petitioner as he discusses the project, but the theme of the article is about the film. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). Thus, while these articles mention the Petitioner, they do 
not constitute published material about him. 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserts that the record contains articles about him in Correia Popular. One 
discusses the 
but the Petitioner has not shown how this constitutes an article about 
...,.h-im-se_l_f_A_n_o-th_e_r_a_rt_i_cl_e-pu~blished in Correia Popular, entitled I I focuses on the 
Petitioner's second novel, but only mentions him once in its final paragraph. As such, the Petitioner 
has not established that these articles are about him, as required by the regulation. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the articles published in Mix Cultural and Toda Dia are 
about the Petitioner. We farther find that the record contains articles published in Cultura and Falha 
Da Regiao On-line that are about the Petitioner. For all four of these publications, however, the 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence identifying the intended audience or showing that their 
circulation is high compared to other publications to demonstrate that they are professional or major 
trade publications or major media. 4 
Finally, other evidence of published material in the record is insufficient to establish eligibility. The 
Petitioner submitted photographs appearing to depict him being interviewed on EM CENA, a 
television show, but the record does not contain a transcription of this interview or other evidence of 
the context of this photograph. In addition, the record contains several articles, such as one about his 
fictional works published in Lwniare and another entitled I I that do 
3 One article published in Tribuna Liberal, entitled ~------------'' does not state the name of the 
author, as required by the regulation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 
Matter of W-S-
not contain the date or name of the author, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, 
for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. We disagree. A scholarly article in the 
academic arena "reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse" and 
"should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography."5 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field, which means individuals "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship."6 
Here, the record contains an article written by the Petitioner entitled, I t' that was published in 2006, and another article co-authored b._y_t_h_e_P_e-t1-.t-io_n_e_r_t_h-at_w_a__,s 
published in 2008 entitled, I I' both of which w._e_r_e_p_u_b_h __ s-h-ed-in-th_e_m_a_g_a_z-in_e_U_F_O ___ T_h_e_s_e _a-re-jo-um--al-i-st-ic-art-ic-le-s-th-a~t 
contain interviews from individuals describing certain events. The Petitioner has not established that 
these constitute scholarly articles in the academic arena or in any other fields. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of W-S-, ID# 2756032 (AAO June 5, 2019) 
5 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
6 Id. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 6, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an attorney specializing in the field of claims management, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of A-N-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as the managing attorney of~-----~------~ D a firm providing guidance on personal injury law and navigating the claims management system 
to United Kingdom nationals in California. As he has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the two following criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contains 
evidence that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others at several claims 
management conferences, including multiple years of the annual It also 
contains evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner, as the founder of the ~--------~ 
served in a leading role for an organization having a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that he has met the criterion for 
judging and for leading or critical role. 
The Petitioner also establishes that he meets the criterion for published material pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record contains published articles in professional publications that are about 
2 
Matter of A-N-
the Petitioner relating to his work in claims mana ement. For exam le the record contains a Claims 
Management Magazine article titled~-----------===---------------~ ~--------'I discussing the Petitioner's formation of~ and including an interview with him 
regarding the future of claims management companies. Information about this magazine in the record 
indicates that it is a publication for professionals in the claims management field. Accordingly the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that he meets the published material criterion. Since he has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has worked as an attorney within the claims management industry 
since 1999, beginning his career as a trainee solicitor and then an assistant solicitor working "on both 
the Claimant and Defendant Insurance side, exclusively handling personal injury matters." The record 
demonstrates that in 2003 the Petitioner founded I I, a firm focused 
on personal injury claims and advising claims management companies, and served as its managing 
attorney. In 2009, while employed with I lthe Petitioner foundedc=]and served as its 
chairman. In 2016, the Petitioner founded! l continuing to serve as a managing attorney of 
this firm. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has frequently authored articles and been interviewed about 
claims management regulation in professional publications within his field. For example, in addition 
to the article referenced above, the Petitioner provided a Modern Claims Magazine article in which he 
addresses the.__ ____________________________ __. In a 
Modern Law Magazine feature, the Petitioner is notably the chair of a roundtable discussion. The 
record also contains several other roundtable discussions, question and answer articles, and opinion 
editorials in various professional publications in which the Petitioner is featured as expert on issues in 
the field. 
The Petitioner also documented that he has received frequent invitations to speak at professional 
events and that the invitations were predicated on his expertise in claims management. For example, 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Matter of A-N-
the invitation to speak at the .__ ____________ __. keynote session states "[a]s a 
prominent commentator on the future of the personal injury claims sector, we feel that the delegates 
would really value your perspective on ... the challenges and opportunities that smaller [ claims 
management companies] face .... " Furthermore, in July 2011, the Petitioner was invited to participate 
in a meeting of the United Kingdom Ministry ofJustice's I I 
'--------........-;,===-=f.=.o.:..cu=s:..:e:..::,d on a review of existing claims management regulation. A letter 
in the record from I I managing partner of I I explains that I I 
primary purpose is to advise the Ministry of Justice "on all matters relating to the Claims Management 
Sector." ~ and the Petitioner as its representative, was subsequently invited to join the~ 
permanently, and the record includes evidence demonstrating that the Ministry of Justice has sought 
the Petitioner's input on claims management regulation issues. This evidence is consistent with a 
finding that the Petitioner has achieved a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 
101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding the Petitioner's sustained acclaim in the United Kingdom, the record reflects that, in 
addition to being frequently featured in professional publications and as a speaker at conferences, the 
Petitioner has served on multiple judging panels for claims industry conferences and awards since 
2010. Notably, in 2012 he served as the chair of the judging panel for the '------,;=========1 
He also judged, among others, the 2013 I I ~nd the 2015 I I I I an industry event "designed to celebrate the successes and talents of those in 
the claims industry." The record further shows that under the Petitioner's leadership, I lhas 
received industry awards, including the award at the 2012 I I I I and the ~------__.award at the 2015 ~----------' The 
Petitioner has established that his work in claims management, and the recognition it has brought him 
in addition to his years serving asl l representative on thee=] places him as one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability in business. The totality of the 
evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that he is 
one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has documented sustained 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, 
the Petitioner has shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
4 
Matter of A-N-
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of A-N-ID# 2794643 (AAO June 6, 2019) 
5 MATTER OF R-J-S- DATE: JUNE 6, 2019 
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, the president of a manufacturing company, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had not met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must 
meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Matter of R-J-S-
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 {D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 {AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder of a manufacturing company that supplies components to companies in 
the aerospace industry and other high technology fields. As he has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner 
had not met any of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the following 
criteria: original contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii), and (ix), respectively. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude 
that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. The 
contributions must have already been realized, rather than being prospective possibilities. They must 
be original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related in nature. Finally, the 
contributions must rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project 
or to an organization. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner bases his claim to eligibility under this criterion on the successes of the company he 
founded, its technolo ical achievements, and u on his own business acumen. In 2007, he founded 
~--------------------~a manufacturing company inl I 
India, focused on producing components, sub-systems, and assemblies in the aerospace and other high 
technology industries. Through his leadership. I lwas able to enter into business relationships 
with major entities in the ae,
1aspace /ndustry, such as I II l and the 
Indian I I In 2011, also entered into a joint venture withl ltor the 
machining of aircraft parts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his company demonstrated remarkably high business growth in 
a short period of time in that he "conceived and designed a revolutionary advanced manufacturing 
2 
Matter of R-J-S-
facility," and in two years of being in business he had built "an unprecedented" order backlog with I I to be performed over 10 years. The Petitioner states that I I had also entered 
into a substantial agreement with I I by the end of 2009 which preceded the joint venture 
between with.__ _____ ____,He also notes the business agreements with the companies discussed 
above, and attests to his company's job creation results and business volume growth in India. 
While the growth ofl I shows the Petitioner's business-related successes, the record does not 
establish that these achievements represent original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating what impact the company's successes 
have had on the field. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036; aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1122 (holding 
that the petitioner had not established how his contributions had influenced the field to equate to 
contributions of major significance). 
On appeal, the Petitioner also identifies several technological advancements I lhas achieved that 
he asserts demonstrate original contributions of major significance. He contends that a team from I I and a global equipment supplier developed a new technology for machining and manufacturing 
diffuser cases, which reduced the global benchmark manufacturing time from 40 hours to under 20, 
while resulting in improved quality and efficiency. The Petitioner also claims that he developed an 
innovative new technology for turbine blade repair that was successfully flight tested. He also asserts 
thatl !achieved high scores on several certifications, such as AS9100 andD 97.1 
The record does not corroborate the Petitioner's claims regarding his company's technological 
successes. As evidence ofi ts work on diffuser cases, he submitted a letter froml I I I from '--------~-----' thanking him for the support and work bot~ 
organizations performed "on equipment & feature selection and technology development onl__J 
Diffusor Case, culminating in successful project .... " The record contains no evidence supporting the 
Petitioner's claims of improved quality, efficiency, or reduced manufacturing time. Additionally, in 
his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner states that "[ s ]ubsequently I I used similar 
technology in Poland for their internal manufacturing." However, he submitted no evidence to 
substantiate this claim. 
As evidence of the compan 's work on turbine blade repair, the Petitioner relies on two letters from 
of the Indian I l In a letter from 2013, '---------------~ ~--------~ 
expresses his appreciation of.__ _ ___, work reclaiming turbine blade and noting that the technology, 
which was developed by the Petitioner's "elite firm," will "go a long way in reclamation technology 
and substantial savings to National Exchequer." The second letter, from 2014, does not specifically 
reference I f s turbine work, but notes the work that the company has done in design, 
development, manufacturing, and reclamation of aerospace parts, and indicates that there is potential 
for more growth in long term support of base repair depots. The impacts described in these letters are 
prospective and potential, while the criterion requires the Petitioner to establish, at the time of filing, 
that his original contributions have had a significant impact. Furthermore, the impacts described in 
1 AS9000 is a quality 1anage1ent standard for the aviation, space, and defense industries, organized by the Society of 
Automotive Engineers. is a certification standard promulgated byl I 
3 
Matter of R-J-S-
the letters are limited to I I the Indianl I and the National Exchequer; the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating what impact is has on the field in general. 
Similarly, the record lacks evidence demonstrating the significance ofl I certification scores, 
such as how they demonstrate an original contribution or whr significance they were to the field. 
While the described technological achievements indicate that is a successful and reputable 
business, they do not establish that the Petitioner has met the regulatory criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that his business acumen demonstrates an original contribution of major 
significance to the field. He contends that his background in business development, sales, and 
management have allowed him to achieve uncommon goals, establish his core business in a very 
uncommon way, and implement strategic plans and optimized business opportunities. Additionally, 
he asserts that he designed and implemented a "cyber-physical advanced manufacturing system," 
which required "a new class of manufacturing engineers, who were comfortable both in the digital and 
the physical world[,]" and that as a result, he "developed the entire training program which spanned 
technology, operations, quality and soft skills." 
In support of his business acumen claims, the Petitioner has submitted a number of letters. 
Correspondence from resident of Products and Technolo at and 
~------ the president of ~---------------~ both note that 
manufacturing capacity limits progress in product development, as it has not kept up with design 
systems. Both letters go on to state that the Petitioner understands this, and that this understanding 
"coupled with his experience running an international manufacturing entity has enabled him as a 
person of extraordinary ability in the business of advance manufacturing." ( emphasis in originals) In 
addition, the record contains a letter froml . . .I chief executive officer at I I 
stating that he believes the Petitioner to be an individual who demonstrates an extraordinary ability in 
the field of business. Similarly, a letter from I Ian aerospace and defense expert atl I 
I , I states that he has found the Petitioner to be "a person with extraordinary abilities in advance 
manufacturing for critical sectors." 
While complimentary, the letters fail to establish that the Petitioner's business acumen can be 
considered an original contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value; letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with 
Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/ 
Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. Here, the letters lack specifics about what original 
contributions the Petitioner has made and how they have impacted the field. Rather, they claim, 
without explanation, that the Petitioner is an individual of extraordinary ability. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. Fed in Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), af'ed, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
4 
Matter of R-J-S-
The record does not include support for the Petitioner's claim that he designed and implemented a 
cyber-physical advanced manufacturing plant that required the creation of a new class of engineer for 
which he developed a comprehensive new training program. In his 2014 letter,.__ _______ __. 
states that visitors to I l"witness[ ed] one of the finest industrial infrastructures in the country" 
and goes on to indicate that "there is a great potential, skill and expertise available at your firm for 
design, development and precision parts machining, manufacturing of re-engineered parts and 
reclamation of technology of critical spares." The record also contains several photographs of a 
building, various machines, and machined parts. However, the record does not demonstrate that the 
facility was designed by the Petitioner, that he developed a training program for engineers, or that this 
facility needed "a new class of manufacturing engineers, who were comfortable both in the digital and 
the physical world." Furthermore, assuming arguendo that the Petitioner did those things, the record 
does not establish that these contributions were of major significance to the field. 
After reviewing Te evidence in the record, we recognize the business success the Petitioner's 
company, has experienced, but he has not established that this success equates to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 130 (indicating that 
success alone is insufficient to establish eligibility for this classification); see also id. at 134 (upholding 
a finding that "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through 
the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the 
organization or the establishment's activities. 
The Director held that the Petitioner had shown that he had performed in a leading or critical role for I lbut that the record did not establish that his company has a distinguished reputation through 
evidence of the company's reputation in the community or awards or rankings. As the record contains 
sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's role within I las its founder, we agree with the Director 
that he has performed in a leading or critical role. At issue here is whether he has performed in such 
a role in an organization that has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence in the record establishes that I I has a 
distinguished reputation in its own way. He states that the defense industry in India requires it to keep 
a low profile because of the sensitive nature of its work. The record contains documentation 
supporting this point from the Indian .__ __ ~ ___ ____.demonstrating that I I is prohibited 
from disclosing its role in providing the products it develops. The record reflects that the IndianD I I invited the Petitioner to make a presentation at thel I 
Conference. The Petitioner also submits evidence that members of the Indian military visited I I 
facilities as part of their principal maintenance officers committee meeting. While the evidence in the 
record does not establish widespread recognition of the Petitioner's company, we find that its 
5 
Matter of R-J-S-
partnerships with such well-established companies such as I Ian~ l together with 
its reputation within the Indian I I demonstrate that it has a distinguished reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he earned high income as the owner of I l and that the 
Director failed to consider evidence of compensation from that company's joint venture withc=J 
The Director discussed the evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's income for 2008, 2010, and 
2011, concluding that the record did not establish that he met this criterion. The record reflects that 
the Petitioner's income for 2010 and 2011, as stated on his Indian tax forms, was 7,209,600 and 
1,645,464, respectively, in Indian rupees. In addition, the Petitioner also submitted evidence 
demonstrating that in 2011, he commanded an additional salary of $220,000 for his work as the 
managing director of I I the joint venture between I I and 
I I 
Upon review of the record in its totality, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a 
high salary. In his explanatory note on salary and remuneration, he claims a salary from I I 
equivalent to $231,000, based on 2008 exchange rates. As evidence, he submits an account statement 
from Citibank for a jointly held account shared with his wife, showing all transactions in 2008. Using 
handwritten notations, he has marked certain deposits as being received froml I However, 
Citibank identifies I las the source of only some of the deposits claimed by the Petitioner, but 
does not indicate the origin of the others. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that those 
deposits represent income from I I as he claims. Additionally, he has not submitted evidence to 
demonstrate that any income he did receive froml I in 2008 was high in relation to others in the 
field. 
The Petitioner has submitted Indian tax documents, which show he received 7,209,600 rupees in 2010. 
He claims that amount was equivalent to $180,000, and that it exceeded the income of 92 percent of 
households in India. To establish eligibility under this criterion, the relevant inquiry is how the 
Petitioner's income compares to others in the field, not with the general populace. Thus, he must 
establish his salary was high in comparison to those performing similar work in the field. USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. The record contains a document from Monster 
Salary Index from 201 7 which compares salaries of "managers, chief executives, senior officials and 
legislators" in India, but he has not shown that this evidence is relevant to time period for which he 
documented his income. On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted similar information regarding 
salaries in 2010, or evidence of his salary in 2017, despite being alerted by the Director of these 
evidentiary shortcomings. As such, he has not established that his income during that time period was 
high in relation to others in the field. 
Finally, the record contains documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational 
Outlook Handbook, dated May 2016, related to compensation of chief executives. This evidence 
indicates that the top ten percent for those in this occupation earn $208,000 per year, which the 
6 
Matter of R-J-S-
Petitioner contends demonstrates he has commanded a high salary. However, when a petitioner works 
outside of the United States, salary comparisons should be evaluated on wage statistics or other 
comparable data in that country, rather than by converting the salary to U.S. dollars and viewing 
whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. Id. Thus, the Petitioner's use of 
the Occupational Outlook Handbook in relation to his salary froml I to establish eligibility for 
this criterion is inapposite. 2 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-J-S-, ID# 1746454 (AAO June 6, 2019) 
2 The Petitioner has previously claimed that he would receive compensation over $250,000 per annum in the United States 
once he received his work authorization, which the Director discounted, noting that eligibility could not be established 
based on future events. On appeal, the Petitioner has not raised this issue, and we will not consider it. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-M-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 11, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a wrestler, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 {D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 {AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a wrestler who has competed at the 2016 I I and in local and 
international tournaments. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
two of the initial evidentiary criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and memberships under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The record reflects that the Petitioner medaled at international tournaments, 
such as thel !Championships. In addition, the Petitioner was a member of the 20161 I I lteam. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards and 
memberships criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that "the published material submitted in the original filing includes 
publications featured in the BBC News,I I and Sports & Fitness, which are each read by 
2 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
an international audience numbering in the tens of thousands." Moreover, he argues that "the articles 
are centered around the wrestling achievements of [him] and his upcoming international competitions 
as work in his field of expertise." In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
including the title, date, and author of the material. 1 
As it relates to BBC News and Sports & Fitness, the Petitioner did not include the authors of the 
material. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, as it relates to BBC News, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
bbc.com reflecting the listing of the results for the 2016 I !wrestling matches. Similarly, 
d. S rts & Fitness, the Petitioner submitted an excerpt ofbriefl I athletes' profiles for 
. Likewise, concerning I ~e Petitioner presented screenshots from 
pertaining to a preview of the I where the Petitioner is mentioned among 
all of the other wrestling competitor~er, the documentation is not about him but rather an 
overview of upcoming and completedL__Jwrestling matches andl I athletes. Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 2 
In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any supporting documentation to corroborate his assertions 
that the publications "are read each by an international audience numbering in the tens of thousands."3 
Moreover, while we recognize the BBC News and its website as major media, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that a readership of "tens of thousands" is tantamount to a major medium. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
~titioner argues that his recommendation letters show his role with the.__ ________ _, 
L___J As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 5 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
3 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
According tol ~wrestling and life coach, the Petitioner "continued to prove his leading 
and critical role with I _ through successive wins at the I I Championshi]s and 
I I Games in 2014 and 2015 to qualify for the 2016 I _" and 
"[t]his impressive representation of his country further helps to demonstrate his critical role as an 
award winning wrestler with thel I and the contributions he has made in elevating the 
status and international rankings of the country's team." Furthermore wrestling 
coach, indicated that the Petitioner "was a critical member ofl ldue to his winning record and 
encouraging sportsmanlike attitude that he displayed towards his teammates." 
Althou~ I rJ.ndl I claimed that the Petitioner performed in a leading and critical 
role forl__J they did not provide specific information. 6 Instead, they made general statements 
relating to his role and contributions to the team without demonstrating how his role was either leading 
or critical. For instance.I ldid not explain how the Petitioner's achievements of winning 
wrestling tournaments and qualifying for the I I was leading or critical toe=] overall. 
Moreover,! I did not further elaborate on how the Petitioner's wins elevated the status and 
rankings otl I Likewise.I I did not detail how the Petitioner's winning record and 
sportsmanlike impacted or contributed to the team. Again, the letters do not contain sufficient 
information to establish the significance of the Petitioner's role withLJ For example, the letters do 
not show how the Petitioner's role as a wrestler differentiated from the others wrestlers or positions 
witLJor how he was essential in contributing to the overall successes ofD 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate thatD enjoys a distinguished reputation consistent 
with th is leg u latlry criterion. 7 The Petitioner does nor I mentioln, nor does the record contain' evi de nee 
reflecting reputation. As discussed above, referenced Os "international 
rankings of the country's team" but did not indicate international ranking. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not provide, for example, documentation showing the general field's view oO how 
its reputation compares to other national wrestling teams, ore=] successes in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). See also Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Aiyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof). 
7 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
4 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofH-M-E-A-, ID# 3385357 (AAO June 11, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-R-A-H-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a culinary chef and gastronomic consultant, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, and a subsequent motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director stated that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he will continue to work in his field in the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria and that he seeks to continue working in the culinary field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the leading or 
critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
also meets the awards, membership, judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(vi), respectively. Upon review, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented a certificate from the I I I stating that he received a I I as ,__ ___ ____,,==--------' 
I I The record also includes two Face book hoto ra hs dated 02011 and an 
OctoberD YouTube video1 relatin to award ceremonies. In 
addition, the Petitioner provided a,__ __ ~2016 article from Sunoticiero.com about a Venezuelan 
1 The information provided indicates that this YouTube video had "389 views." 
2 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
I award. He also submitted a ..... 1 ---.----' I This article is foreign student recruiter who received a I 
2015 article from Nuestragaita.com, entitled 'I 
about the song 1 I' and its songwriter and cr..=e-=at~o;;.;:r....:'s~re::..:c::..::e:.:Jit:..:t::....o::::.cf::....·..:;:th;:;.:e:....!=:=========-=a::;.;w~a=r~d:..:....,. 
With regard to that award, the article indicates that .__-------.---;:::::============:::;-' I 1"2 The article farther s;.;.ta=t:..::e.:::..:s:~'-"....::T:..::;h:.======:::::z:;--~-----' 
the highest award of the people of1 !proclaims the.__ _________ _. ... for the song I I of the composer I I considering as the hymn of the Venezuelans,' which was 
published by I I' We note that the 
aforementioned articles and Facebook and YouTube material do not mention the Petitioner's receipt 
of a.__ ______ ____. as '.__ ____________________ __, 
While the Petitioner has offered documentation from Facebook, Y ouTube, Sunoticiero.com, and 
Nuestragaita.com, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that his I laward is 
a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. For example, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the Sunoticiero.com and Nuestragaita.com coverage or Facebook and 
Y ouTube material are indicative of the I I award' s national or international 
recognition in the culinary field. He has not established therefore that he meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that his membership in the .__ _____________ ...v meets this 
criterion. On motion to the Director, he provided information about ~ and his membership 
certificate showing a "paid thru date" of August 31, 2019. The record, however, does not show that 
the Petitioner was a member of~ at the time the Form 1-140 was filed on April 25, 2018. Eligibility 
must be established at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.RJ1.Q,2.2(b)(l). Regardless, the information and 
evidence he presented does not demonstrate thatL_Jrequires outstanding achievements of its 
members or that their achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains news articles, advertisements for the Petitioner's cooking course, and his recipes 
in publications such as La Verdad and El Venezolano de Panama. The Petitioner, however, has not 
presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that these publications' readership 
elevates them to major media relative to other publications. Furthermore, regarding the advertisements 
for his cooking course, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that "published material" as referenced in 
.:c=) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. 
3 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
the regulation includes this type of promotional material. 3 Nor has the Petitioner shown that the 
articles including only his recipes constitute published material about him. This regulatory criterion 
requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about him do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Finally, the record does not show that any 
of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were about the Petitioner and in major media. For 
the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
For this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled' I I" This article announcing the aforementi~o-n-ed_c_o_n-te_s_t_r-eq_u_e_s-ts-re_a_d_e_r_s -to-s-en-d-in~ 
their recipes for evaluation by a jury of five rofessionals that includes the Petitioner. In addition, he 
submitted a second article, entitled ' ~-,---,------------,----,-------,-----,-----,---,--.....,.,-,------,-~ ~-----~ which informs readers that "[ n ]ext Wednesday, October 11 is the deadline for 
reception of recipes from the public." 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. 4 The aforementioned articles that pre-date the judging process are not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner later served as part of the jury for the I I 
contest. Here, the Petitioner did not submit, for example, evidence from I I staff or a 
follow-up article confirming his participation in selecting the finalists and winners who entered the 
recipe contest. The Petitioner therefore has not sufficiently demonstrated that he satisfies this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his book, entitled ~--------~ I I and various letters of support discussing his work as a chef and culinary instructor. The 
Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons 
discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the petitioner). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that .__ ____________ ___,was "used in the promotion 
and distribution of kitchen ware at a national and international level." He farther contends that I lis a major producer of kitchen cookware and would have chosen a chef of great renown 
in order to effectively promote its products among Latin American consumers and other users of I I products." 
The record includes excerpts from~------------~' including a biography page 
listing the Petitioner's educational training and accomplishments as a chef In addition, he presents a 
January 2018 letter froml la legal representative forl , I stating that 
the Petitioner served "as chef advisor and creator of our recipe book ... in the year 2008. He also 
gave us cooking courses and demonstrations for our promoters and clients, and he was gastronomic 
consultant as well."5 The Petitioner also submits information about~-----~ (manufacturer 
of thel lbrand name) and~--------~( a commercial kitchen equipment 
service company) from their websites. The aforementioned evidence, however, is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that his book rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the culinary field. 
For instance, the record does not show that the Petitioner's book has widely influenced others in the 
culinary industry, that his collection of recipes in the book are highly renowned by recognized food 
critics, or that his original work otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
As farther evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner points to letters for support from two government 
officials discussing his development of an "innovative teaching concept." However, as discussed 
below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, I I Member of Congress.__ _______ __. Illinois, stated that the 
Petitioner "envisions an academy to donate his time to educate and teach future chefs from all over 
the country. I had the opportunity to observe many of his presentations and you can feel the passion 
and time he puts into it." 
Likewise, I I Alderman for I O I Ward, asserted that the Petitioner has 
"designed a powerful project that would bring benefits to the residents" of her ward through adding 
jobs and educating people in the culinary arts. She farther explained: 'The cafe-concert project is 
based on an affordable school of culinary arts training where students can develop skills and reinforce 
their knowledge including implementing their own internship on-site. The concept ... will include 
content knowledge on catering services, gastronomic advising, and at-the-table-etiquette." While D 
I I claimed that that the Petitioner has "implemented the concept at the international level before 
arriving in the United States," the record does not show that his concept has widely influenced the 
field beyond the programs where he taught or has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major 
significance in the field. The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original 
51 I does not provide any sales information for the Petitioner's book or offer specific examples of its impact in 
the culinary field. 
5 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting his students. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the 
field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As discussed, the Petitioner provided his recipe book, entitled.__ ____________ _, The 
record, however, does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this work constitutes a 
scholarly article in a professional or major trade publication or form of major media. 6 Based on the 
foregoing, he has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated his eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that he meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has performed m a leading or critical role for I I ~, 1 I .--I -~1-1 -------1 
I ll I, I I, J I, the Embassy 
of the I I in Panama, and the I I Consulate in I I If a leading role, 
then evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 8 In addition, this 
criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 9 
The record includes letters of support from the above organizations discussing the Petitµ· """'"""........,_....,_,__,""'"""'-1_0 ~ 
For example, I ,I Manager of Food and Beverages and Banquets r=-fo=r'--t=h=e--,-r=========r' I I indicated that he previously supervised the Petitioner's work at 
stated that the Petitioner was in charge ofl 6 Peruvian, Thai, French,~M_e_x-ic--a~n, and Italian 
Gastronomic Festivals and that he "taught training courses to the kitchen staff" In addition.I I 
6 A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating 
profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 9. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Id at 10-11. 
10 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
.___-,}I Food and Beverage Assistant, I I asserted that the Petitioner "hosted gastronomic 
festivals like: Gastronomic and Cultural Peruvian Festival, Asian Gastronomic Festival, French 
Gastronomic Festival" and trained the general kitchen staff in food preparation. This evidence, 
however, does not show that the Petitioner's role hosting the aforementioned festivals reflects his 
leading or critical role forl bverall. For instance, the letters from~---------~ 
did not contain detailed and probative information that specifically addressed how the Petitioner's role 
as a guest chef for various festivals was leading or critical for the organization. Moreover, their letters 
did not explain how the Petitioner's temporary role was leading compared to the hotel's full-time staff 
positons such as its executive chef or manager, nor did their statements indicate that the Petitioner's 
festival work was of significant importance for I l success or standing in the industry so as to 
demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, while the record contains information about I I from 
the website ofc=] the company that owns the hotel, this documentation is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the hotel has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
In addition, the Petitioner presented a May 2010 certificate of recognition from the Embassy of the 
in Panama for "his artici ation in different t pes of barbeque preparing, during 
the , erformed inl I." 
He also provided a letter from the.__ ___ _,Consulate in ,___ _ ___,thanking him for the food he 
'jrepard to be served at three cultural events displaling and discussing! t' 
i 2018. These cultural events for the !Consulate, however, post-dated the filing of the 
petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nonetheless, while the submitted documentation shows that the 
Petitioner prepared food for various dillomatic events, it does not demonstrate that he performed in a 
leading or critical role for either the _ I Embassy or the I I Consulate. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that his role was leading among these organizations' staff or that he 
contributed in an important way to the organizations' overall success or standing. Further, although 
the Petitioner offered information about the Embassy of the I I in Panama from 
EmbassyPages.com, these "Facts About the Embassy" are not sufficient to demonstrate it has a 
distinguished reputation. Moreover, the record does not include supporting evidence indicating that 
thd I Consulate inl lhas garnered a distinguished reputation. 
Finally. with rerrd to the PetitT°er' s wrn:lk for I I I I, I I D I _I L JI landl I 
the information in the letters from these organizations is not sufficient to demonstrate that his culinary 
and instructional duties were leading or critical to the overall organizations, nor has he adequately 
demonstrated their distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he meets this criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Continuing Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability11 
The Petitioner presented a personal statement detailing his plans for work in the United States. He 
stated that he intends to cater civil and social events for foreign consulates id I open his own 
11 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
7 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
restaurant, and develop his cafe-concert project involving an affordable school of culinary arts 
training. In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter from the I I Consulate in I I 
expressing interest in having him work with their staff "in the catering of our important social and 
civic events." Furthermore, with respect to his cafe-concert project, the record includes a letter from I I professor atl I University, asserting that she plans to partner 
with the Petitioner on that project. She further indicated: "I believe that I I. . would benefit 
with having a cafe-concert in which education and cooking are the basis of success and community 
empowerment." We find the aforementioned information and evidence sufficient to demonstrate that 
the Petitioner seeks to continue work in his area of expertise in the United States pursuant to the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Accordingly, the Director's determination on this issue is 
withdrawn. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of his work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
8 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-R-A-H-, ID# 3524020 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-S-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an industrial engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of a third criterion in addition to the 
two that the Director determined he meets. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-S-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed by~------------- as a principal engineer. 
The Director found that he met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating 
to the authorship of scholarly articles and a high salary. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the evidentiary criteria relating to a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet the requisite three 
evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's patent, as well as several reference letters 
from experts in his field, but concluded that the evidence established only that he is a productive 
member of his research team. The Petitioner does not challenge this conclusion, and we agree that the 
evidence does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner authored two scholarly articles which were published in 
the journal Quality Engineering, and we therefore find that he meets this criterion. 
2 
Matter of S-S-L-
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We first note that the Petitioner correctly indicates in his appeal brief that this criterion requires two 
determinations; whether the foreign national has played a leading or critical role, and whether the 
organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation. The evidence is sufficient to establish 
the distinguished reputation ofl I 
In his analysis of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Director found that the 
Petitioner's role was not critical to an entire organization or establishment such that he was responsible 
for its success or standing. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that this is not the appropriate standard 
for this criterion, and refers to Chapter 22.2(i)(l)(A) of the USCIS Adjudicator's Field Manual, which 
states that a foreign national plays a critical role when he or she "has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities." 
The evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's critical role fore=] consists of reference letters 
written by the Petitioner's current and former supervisors. These authors explain his work on D s 
Advanced Process Control (APC) team, which is responsible for implementing controls in the 
company's manufacturing processes to ensure quaµ.tY....anq consistency.~----~Vice President 
and General Manager of Wafer Operations at L_J states that within the APC team at the 
manufacturing facility where he's employed, the Petitioner is the only industrial engineer, and that he 
has developed his expertise in the more than ten years of employment with the company and "become 
a critical member of the APC team." I ~es on to describe several projects that the Petitioner 
has been involved with while employed bYL__J including leading the development of an "internal 
R2R control solution" that "has been deployed on more than 20 process tools in the 6" wafer line," 
and developing and delivering APC training to engineers and technicians, including those in Japan 
and the Philippines. I I writes that he was the Petitioner's colleague and manager for 
several years, and verifies his role in developing, testing and deployment of the APC solution 
mentioned b~ l as well as development and delivery of associated training forD engineers. 
In addition, a letter fro~ I who like I I is a retired former supervisor of 
the Petitioner, describes him as a "skilled and proficient practitioner of run-to-run process control and 
system modelling." I I explains that the Petitioner developed an algorithm that was 
implemented into a specific manufacturing process and "yielded increased process capability," also 
resulting in a patent. He concludes by noting that the Petitioner "has taken a lead role in implementing 
R2R a variety of different semiconductor manufacturing processes" and has spread the use of R2R 
withinl !through his training classes. 
These letters reveal that the Petitioner has made contributions tol I beyond the scope of his team 
and the facility where he is employed, but they do not sufficiently establish the importance of those 
contributions tol ts overall activities I I indicates that an introductory training course 
developed by the Petitioner has been delivered to over 40 new engineers and technicians. However, 
the impact of this training, and other more advanced classes developed by the Petitioner, on the 
company's APC teams and overall activities is not explained. Further,1 I mentions that the 
Petitioner's R2R solution has been applied to manufacturing processes for one product, but the 
3 
Matter of S-S-L-
importance of this contribution to that product and I ~ s overall portfolio of products is not 
demonstrated. He also notes that the Petitioner's experience will be valuable in applying R2R 
techniques td i's newly acquired solid state and flash drive manufacturing business, but does not 
suggest that he has already made an important contribution in this regard. Similarly, while the 
evidence shows that the Petitioner has recently performed and presented research on the 
implementation of machine learning to R2R techniques, which I I notes "will be a 
revolutionary change in manufactlrng," lthe evidence does not establish that this research has already 
made an important contribution to s activities. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his current salary and his total remuneration, as well as 
information from the Office of Foreign Labor Certification's Online Data Center and public sources, 
which verifies his salary and demonstrates that it is high compared to others in his field. Accordingly, 
we find that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of acclaim and standing in his field required for the classification 
sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-S-L-, ID# 3522701 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dance instructor and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief: arguing that she satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-E-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dance instructor and choreographer who has taught at several dance studios and 
centers in the United States and Australia. Because she has not indicated or established that she has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner participated as a judge at the 2015 I IN ational 
Talent Competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging 
criterion. However, for the reasons discussed later in this decision, we do not concur with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner demonstrated that she satisfied the lesser awards criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter of S-E-A-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. Specifically, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility for this criterion based on the receipt of awards won by her students, as well as awards 
,..lli!.SIJ~M..illtilllL.,(lja.lli::..e....:Sill~ios and centers. For instance, I I CEO and presidr'--e""n=t_o;;..cf'-'----.....J 
, stated that two of the Petitioner's students won "Aurst=r=al=i=a....a'saL..---,..-----' 
ir----,,_f_r_o_m_h___,,.------1N i n 1 D n hamr,iaosbiosl ~ Moreover,.__ ____ _. general 
manager of.__ __________ __,, and I ) assistant general manager for ~ 
listed awards won by the Petitioner's company,'------~----' from 2007 to 2013, including 
"Group Aggregate 13 years and over," "Best Tapping Group," and "Grand Champion Solo 
performer." Further, I I co-founder and director of the I I 
Performing Arts Center, indicated that the Petitioner "has improved the level of technique within our 
school greatly with her extraordinary teaching methods to go on and win the 'Technique Award' at 
the I IN ational Talent Competition I I' and "routines she has choreographed have led 
our students win National Titles in Contemporary and Jazz last July at thel I National Finals 
held inl ~" In addition, the record contains numerous photographs of plaques displaying 
events and categories but not showing the recipients. 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to receive prizes or awards. 2 Moreover, the description 
of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of 
the prizes or awards, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the prizes or awards. 3 Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that she received the claimed awards. Rather, the record shows awards 
bestowed upon her students or dance studios; the awarding entities did not name the Petitioner as a 
recipient of the awards. 
In addition, this criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 4 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations of competitors. 5 
Although the Petitioner's evidence makes references to the competitions and events, the 
documentation does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field. For example, regarding thel I the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
Matter of S-E-A-
Petitioner submitted screenshots froml [com reporting <;rn the 2016 event without showing 
the recognition of the awards in the field. Further, as it relates tol._ ______ __.bffered a brief 
description of the competition but did not provide any detailed information showing the national or 
international recognition of thec=]awards. Moreover, while an unidentified screenshot claimed that 
c=]is Australia's "largest competition of its kind,"I I asserted that the I !National 
Championship is also "Australia's largest and most prestigious dance competition." Regardless, 
neither the screenshot norl ~ letter contains material explaining the national or international 
significance of the0awards. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that thel I awards, 
as well as awards from the I I National Competition, ~-------~ 
Conventions and Competitions, and thd I., are viewed by the field as nationally 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her evidence fulfills the regulatory requirements, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's choreographed work was displayed at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases. Accordingly, the Petitioner has shown that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on her roles with the I I II I and~------~ ._A_s_i_t -re-la-te-s-to____.a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 6 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 7 Moreover, this regulatory criterion requires the role to be for organizations or establishments 
that have a distinguished reputation. 8 
As it pertains to~ the Petitioner did not initially indicate any employment or role with the dance 
company. 9 However, in response to the director's request for evidence, she submitted a letter from I lwho indicated thatc=Jrecently hired her for the role of director in 2017 and had 
subsequently selected the Petitioner as a coach and choreographer for the December 2017"""1 =~~ 
Dance Championships in I I In addition, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from c=Js 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
9 The Petitioner made no claims of employment or roles withe=] in her cover letter, resume, or any of the submitted 
documentation at the initial filing of the petition on August 25, 2017. 
4 
Matter of S-E-A-
website reflecting that the dance company was founded in 2017. Further, the Petitioner submitted a 
screenshot, dated November 28, 2017, froml I announcing! I as the director and 
head coach and the hiring of the Petitioner. On appeal, the Petitioner offers a "Summary of Oral 
Agreement," dated October 29, 2018, regarding the terms of the Petitioner's employment from 
October 201 7 -December 2025. Here, the documentation relates to events occurring after the filing 
of the petition, and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she performed in a role with Dprior to 
the filing of her petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding□ the Petitioner references a letter from I I founder and director of the musical 
theatre course for0 atl I University, who stated that the Petitioner "was selected to design and 
teach the dance program for the only Bachelor of Musical Theatre course of its kind in Australia," and 
"[a]s a founding member of the course, [the Petitioner] paved the way to success for many of our 
students." While I !discussed his reasoning for selecting the Petitioner to start-up a course, 
he did not explain how the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical to Ooverall.10 Moreover, I I did not demonstrate how ldesigling and teaching a co~ that the Petitioner held a 
leadership position or contributed to successes as a whole; L___J indicated the Petitioner's 
impact to the musical theatre course rather thaQin general. 
As it relates to D the record reflects that the Petitioner performed in a leading role as she founded 
and owned the dance company. However, the Petitioner did not establish that D enjoys a 
distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. Although the Petitioner argues that 
c=}; students won several awards, as discussed under the awards criterion, she did not demonstrate 
how the awards showOs distinguished reputation. For instance, the Petitioner did not explain the 
significance of the students receiving the awards toD or how the quality or quantity of the awards 
compared to other dance companies. Moreover, the Petitioner references the letter froml I 
who claimed thar9'was attracting dancers from all over Australia to train," and a letter from the 
current owner of _ l, who opined thatO'is still one of the most prestigious performing 
arts schools in the country." However, the letters do not provide specific, detailed explanations to 
support their assertions. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot froml I and 
the above-mentioned screenshot from I lwhich mentioned that is "a leading Performing 
Arts Center in Australia" and "a leading performing arts center on the.__ ___ _, of Australia." 
Again, the articles do not justify their statements fore=] "leading" reputation. Further, the Petitioner 
did not show that two screenshots represent sufficient evidence of Os reputation in the field 
compared to, for example, widespread coverage of the dance company in major media. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
Matter of S-E-A-
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
6 
Matter of S-E-A-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-E-A-, ID# 3497197 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-P-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a trek and mountain expedition leader, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation and a brief: arguing that he satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria, that he will continue to work in his area of expertise, and that he will 
substantially benefit the United States. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
Matter of A-P-S-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Sherpa and mountain guide who has climbed Mt. Everest and performed a role in 
a movie. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contains evidence that 
the Petitioner served as a managing director for a leading trekking and mountaineering agency in 
Nepal. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the leading or critical role 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter of A-P-S-
A. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner argues that he "met his burden to show that the ten regulatory criteria do not readily 
apply to his occupation and that the evidence he submitted is comparable to show his national and 
international recognition for his work in his field." Specifically, the Petitioner clams that he provided 
evidence "from multiple sources to explain the difficulties elite Sherpas encounter in being recognized 
nationally and internationally for their extraordinary and incredibly dangerous work." The regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to 
his occupation. 1 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included 
is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 
Although the Petitioner offered documentary evidence relating to the life, history, and overview of 
Sherpas, as well as the risks and dangers, the regulatory requirement for the submission of comparable 
evidence is whether the criteria "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his evidence establishes that the criteria 
do not readily apply to Sherpas and mountain guides and why he cannot offer evidence that meets at 
least three of the criteria. In addition, the Petitioner's claim that Sherpas face difficulties in receiving 
national or international recognition for their work does not necessarily show that Sherpas cannot 
fulfill at least three criteria. Moreover, the decision that a petitioner received national or international 
recognition is conducted in a final merits determination after at least three criteria are satisfied. See 
Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Furthermore, as discussed later, the Petitioner claimed to meet three criteria without the submission of 
comparable evidence, including published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original 
contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). In fact, the Petitioner asserts to only satisfying the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) through comparable evidence, discussed below. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
show that Sherpas or mountain guides cannot present evidence relating to the other criteria, such as 
memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation 
that fulfills at least three is not evidence that he could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did 
not establish that he qualifies for an additional criterion, as well as other criteria, through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
In addition, the Petitioner's counsel lists 12 individuals with corresponding receipt numbers and claims 
that "USCIS has approved extraordinary petitions for the following clients of our firm" and"[ e Jach of 
these individuals relied on the use of comparable evidence to establish their eligibility for an El I 
immigrant visa." However, each petition is reviewed on its own merits. Further, we are not bound by 
decisions of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 
2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). Moreover, Counsel did not demonstrate that the issues in 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 
Matter of A-P-S-
those cases were strikingly similar to the Petitioner's case, including the application of comparable 
evidence. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided a letter of appreciation from I f reflecting that he received the 2015 
' award for his "outstanding work in being able to portray Nepal in the 
in~t_e_rn_a_t-io_n_a_l_s_c-en_e_'_' ~for demonstrating "a great valor in the recently film I I produced by 
Hollywood wherein, your co-stars role as an accomplished climber is absolutely awesome." In 
addition, the Petitioner references a letter from I I chairman of I I 
c=J, who indicated that the award is granted "every two years to exceptional individuals who have 
made major contributions to tourism in the country" and "[s]uch individuals should have done highly 
recognized work on a national level for more than 5 (Five) years." On appeal, the Petitioner offers 
previously submitted letters who confirmed his receipt of the award and claimed that "such prestigious 
award which is granted for renowned person on tourism sector though there were many summiteers" 
and "regarded as one of the most prestigious awards in this sector." 
This regulatory criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 4 
Although the letters refer to the award as "prestigious," they do not show that the field recognizes the 
award as a national or international award for excellence. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not offer supporting evidence, such as widespread media coverage of the award in major 
newspapers or other evidence showing the award's recognition for excellence in the field. 5 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that "the national prominence of the award is self-evident from the 
fact that it was awarded to [him] by Nepal's Ministry of Tourism, a national government position" 
(emphasis in original). Further,! !indicated that "[t]he selection committee is coordinated 
by the secretary of ministry of the Nepal Government and is awarded in [the] presence of the Minister 
of Tourism." Government-based prizes and awards, however, do not automatically demonstrate 
national recognition of them for excellence in the field. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether 
the Petitioner received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field. Here, while the Minister of Tourism in Nepal coordinates and presents the 'I I I f' the Petitioner did not establish his overall field's recognition of the award. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
5 We note that even though the Petitioner submitted over 25 articles as eligibility for the published material criterion, none 
of the articles mentioned him receiving the award. 
4 
Matter of A-P-S-
Accordingly the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains properly certified translations of two articles, including the title, date, and author, 
reflecting published material about the Petitioner in major Nepali publications. As such, the Petitioner 
demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he 
has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "has influenced the field of mountaineering by applying his highly 
technical mountaineering skills in the context of climate change research, thereby improving overall 
the body of scientific knowledge for other climbers." He references a letter from I I 
founder and president of I I who stated that the Petitioner "has made major 
contributions and changes to the field of mountaineering by using his extraordinary skills in a unique 
way to improve and augment the world's knowledge of climate change" and his "influence on 
mountaineering and glacier research via the application of his expert technical skills on Mount Everest 
goes well beyond service to any client or single expedition." However,! I did not provide 
specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made original contributions and how 
they are considered by the field to be of major significance. Instead,! I made broad, 
general statements without identifying the Petitioner's "extraordinary skills" and how they have 
influenced mountaineering and glacier research. Moreover, having a diverse, extraordinary, or unique 
skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and abilities to impact the field 
at a significant level. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that as a technical advisor on the film,! I he developed 
processes that will continue to be used in filmmaking at high altitude for many years to come. 
Specifically,! I indicated that the Petitioner represented all Sherpa mountaineers and was 
a script and climbing advisor to the film's production team and "[t]he processel [the Pritioner] 
developed during the making of this film will forever influence future filmmaking on ' Again, 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
Matter of A-P-S-
.__ _____ _,!did not identify the Petitioner's "processes" and describe how they are already 
considered majorly significant in the field. Instead,! I speculates on the prospective and 
possible significance in future filmmaking rather than how the Petitioner's contributions already 
qualify in the field of expertise of mountaineering. 
Similarly, the Petitioner ar=es that "his social justice initiatives" in "building the first water supply 
in his natal village, I I where water was previously carried by children on foot" meets this 
criterion. Although I I indicated that the Petitioner assisted in the "development and 
construction of a gravity-fed water supply system that supplies running water to every home in 
I I" he did not explain how working on a water supply system represents an original 
contribution in the field of mountaineering, nor did he show the major significance of the contribution. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that he "has made further original contributions to mountaineering in 
the context of climate change research through his osition as the Sherpa-Scientist Initiative (SSI 
trainee" and references screenshots from and 
Although the screenshot from.__ ______ __, briefly mentions the Petitioner as the SSI 
trainee, it does not discuss what the Petitioner contributed to SSI and how it is viewed by the field as 
being majorly significant. Similarly, the screenshot fromj I credits the Petitioner 
for the photographs but makes no mention of his contributions and how they have influenced the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that his assistance tol I the I I amputee 
and the I I amputee from any country to summit Mr. Everest, qualifies for this criterion. 
He submits a letter from I I who praised the Petitioner as "an extraordinary mountain guide" 
and "has[] patience when climbing with people who has [a] lack of physical abilities and skills." The 
Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how his work with I I constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. While honorable, the Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his work impacted the overall field rather an individual. 8 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that his "[ s ]earch and rescue is a specialized mountaineering skill that 
is original because only a select, elite group of mountaineers are able to perform search and rescue" 
and refers to numerous recommendation letters. However, almost all of his recommendation letters 
specified on appeal simply mention the Petitioner's engagement in rescue missions without showing 
how they constitute original contributions of major significance in the field. For instance, the letters 
briefly stated that the Petitioner "is active in mountain rescue missions around the Himalaya~ I I, "played huge vital roles in mountain rescue missions around the Himalayas"c=J 
§ "has been involved in several rescue missions around the Himalayas" I O O I 
'played [a] huge roll [sic] in mountain rescue mission around the [H]imalayas" I I 
nd "is playing vital role to rescue on natural disasters at Himalayan region" I I 
7 According to'-------~ SSI "was launched in the Nepalese Himalaya to understand glacial lake gro~ih and 
potential flooding hazards" to "train Sherpas in local communities about hazard mitigation and how to conduct in-situ 
research in the Nepalese Himalaya." 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
6 
Matter of A-P-S-
Although the letters indicated the Petitioner's involvement in rescue missions, they do not contain 
specific, detailed information explaining how his contributions have been of major significance in the 
field.9 Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 12 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the 
petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
9 While the Petitioner also submitted a letter from~ ______ _,, who provided details regarding two rescue 
missions, he did not explain how they represent contributions of major significance in the field. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in palt 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. we need not 
consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
7 
Matter of A-P-S-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-P-S-, ID# 3625747 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-A-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architect, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b) (1) (A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b) (1) (A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets three of the evidentiary 
criteria in addition to the one criterion that the Director concluded that he met. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b) (1) (A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) The alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (2). The implementing regulation 
Matter ofM-A-N-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (3) (i)­
(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about him relating to his work, 
display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and his leading or critical role for organizations 
having a distinguished reputation. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he 
does not meet the initial evidence requirements. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record contains evidence which establishes that the Petitioner was a member of two teams which 
received awards for the restoration of historic buildings in his native Romania. Specifically, a letter 
and other supporting documents from the Petitioner's employer at the time, the architectural firm 
I I verify that he was one of nine team members who participated in the restoration 
of the chur~h of I I monastery. The letter from the project mana er of the restoration project 
also indicates that the team was awarded first rize at the 2013 Restoration Exhibition by 
the~---------------~----.------------~ for their 
work. This letter, supported by pages from,__ __ ___, website and a copy of the association's 
magazine, indicates that the I lmonastery project was 1 of 63 entrants judged by a panel of 
experts at the exhibition. In addition, other evidence establishes that the Petitioner was also a team 
member on a second historical restoration project completed by ~-------____,which was 
2 
Matter ofM-A-N-
awarded third place in the 2016 edition o~~------~lexhibition, this time as one of29 projects 
entered. 
The evidence described above demonstrates the Petitioner's receipt of awards for excellence in his 
field as part of a team, but it does not sufficiently establish the national or international recognition of 
these awards. Notably, all of the evidence concerning the awards originates from I land its 
members, and there is no evidence ofrecognition of them, such as widespread media attention, in the 
broader professional community or the general public at the national or international level. We 
therefore disagree with the Director and find that the evidence is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner asserts on ajpeal that the materials referred to above on the I !website and in the 
2014 edition of I magazine show that he meets this criterion. There are several elements 
which must be established under this criterion in order for evidence to qualify. First, the material must 
be about the foreign national. The article in the magazine is about the 20131 I 
Exhibition, as it covers the date and location, the number of projects exhibited, and the names of the 
judges on the awards panel. Even when describing the full list of awards presented, the article does 
not mention the winning team's individual members, but only the company name. Therefore, although 
this publication appears to be a professional publication, thereby meeting the second requirement 
under this criterion, the material is not about the Petitioner and his work. 
The same can be said regarding the website materials about the 2013 and 2016.__ _____ ____. 
Exhibitions. They include much of the same information as the magazine article, and the section 
regarding the 2016 exhibition also does not name individual members of the prize-winning teams. 
Accordingly, we find that the evidence does not establish that this criterion has been met. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In support of its claim under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a document titled "Ranking List 
of Admitted Candidates" from the University of~-------------~ in I I 
Romania. This list shows the Petitioner's name at the top with the highest score for the September 
2009 session. In addition, a page from the university's website is submitted, showing two drawings 
under a section titled "Retrospective Admission 2009" for the Faculty of Architecture, Conservation 
and Restoration of Architecture specialization. We must first note that neither the website nor the 
drawings themselves identify the artist who created the drawings, nor do they include any indication 
that the drawings are the work of the student with the highest admission grade. Although a letter from 
a former classmate of the Petitioner includes a link to the website and states that the drawings are the 
Petitioner's, the classmate does not explain how he became aware of this information. We note that 
he states that he has known the Petitioner since 2013, four years after the Petitioner submitted the 
3 
Matter ofM-A-N-
drawings as part of his application. The evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that the work 
displayed on the website is the Petitioner's. 
Also, the regulation requires that the foreign national's work be displayed at an artistic exhibition or 
showcase. While this webpage contains additional drawings, presumably from other students who 
were admitted to the university's school of architecture, it also contains tabs referring to information 
about the university, including faculty, admissions, and other departments. This evidence does not 
demonstrate that the website for the University o±1 ~ is an artistic 
exhibition or showcase. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in 
organizations or establishments that have 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) a leading or critical role for 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded in her decision that although letters from the Petitioner's employers, 
professors, and colleagues showed that he was important to his employers, they did not establish that 
he played a leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the authors of the letters are 
"experts [sic] architects and university professors that represent the highest authority in the field." 
However, while the stature of the letter writers might have an impact on the overall reputation of the 
organization that employs them, it is not relevant to the issue of the Petitioner's role for those 
organizations. The writers praise the Petitioner's talent and skills, and predict a successful career for 
him, but none suggest that he has played a leading or critical role for his employers or the university 
he attended. 
In addition, although the evidence regarding the awards received by.__ _______ _. at the 
I !exhibitions is sufficient to establish its distinguished reputation, the evidence regarding the 
..... _____ 
1,.....I did not demonstrate that that organization meets this requirement. Accordingly, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Upon review of all of the evidence of record, we find that the Petitioner has not met the initial 
requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of acclaim and standing in his field required for the classification 
sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
4 
Matter ofM-A-N-
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-A-N-, ID# 3617566 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-M-K-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research associate in radiology and radiological science, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria, has demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim, and shown that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-M-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia V. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal V. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as a faculty member and research associate in 
radiology and radiological science at the I I university School of Medicine. As the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the 
initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), respectively. As the record supports those findings, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled these criteria. Specifically, the record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner has performed peer review for publications and conferences and has authored scholarly 
articles appearing in such professional journals as Clinical Cancer Research and Neoplasia. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the published material and original 
contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v), respectively. In addition, as discussed in 
greater detail below, we find the record shows that the Petitioner has made original contributions to 
understanding and advancing I I that are of major significance in the field. 
2 
Matter of S-M-K-
Accordingly, she has met three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and we will evaluate 
the totality of the documentary evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making her one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has shown her eligibility for this 
classification. 
The Petitioner's resume reflects that she received a Ph.D. in Bioengineering from the University of I lin Germany and a Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering from the New Jersey! I I I The record indicates she has worked as a faculty-level research associate in radiology 
and radiological science at thel !University School of Medicine since 2014. 
The Petitioner has provided evidence that demonstrates she has made original contributions of major 
significance in her field of I I specifically through her innovative use of second 
harmonic generation (SHG) mi1roscory.1 The Petitioner established that her research and newly 
developed software to evaluate distribution have increased the understanding of the tumor 
,___ _____ __. provided insights into I I distribution in cancerous tunqors, and most 
importantly, resulted in more effective delivery of cancer drugs. The record contains documentation 
such as detailed recommendation letters from colleagues and independent experts, articles, and 
requests for future research collaboration, showing the influence of the Petitioner's research. The 
submitted evidence identifies her original contributions in the development ofl I 
methods and improved analysis, and explains how those advancements have significantly impacted 
her field. 
~--------~ director of the Cancer Imaging Research Division at the!,___ ____ _, 
University School of Medicine, attests that the Petitioner has "developed a diagnostic method to detect I I non-invasively using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and" i tis because of [the 
Petitioner] that we now know that it is critical to examine the correlation of ~____,,---,---~and the 
tumor,___ _____ __.as well as the heterogeneous behaviorp of cancer sq that better and more 
effective treatment plans can be formulated for cancer patients." .... L ____ _,j further states that her 
work "has caught the media's attention due to the direct impact of [her] work on improving the 
outcomes for cancer patients." For example, an article titled 1 I 
from Inside Science TV (available at www.insidescience.org) specifically references the Petitioner and 
1 The record indicates that SHG microscopy is a type of optical imaging during which light is shined into a substance and 
only specifically shaped objects (if present) reflect light back at a specific rate; it is based on a nonlinear optical effect 
where it obtains contrast from variations in a specimen's ability to generate second-harmonic light from the incident light. 
3 
Matter of S-M-K-
discusses her work developing a laser technique that will help doctors identify if a patient's cancer is 
likely to spread. 
The record contains additional documentation reflecting covera e of the Petitioner's work in 
rofessional ublications in her field such as an article titled 
'------------------------------~ from Cancer Therapy 
Advisor, an online resource for oncology health care professionals, that discusses the importance of 
her team's findings. The article quotes the Petitioner and refers to her as the lead author of a stud 
Ii h h B . hi h r 1 h h 
and can be 
1ma SHG microsco ." Similar! , an article titled .__ _____________ __. 
'-------------------------' in Breast Cancer Management, a journal 
aimed at oncologists and other health care professionals, reports on the aforementioned study. It notes 
that "[ c ]ancer imaging experts have developed a novel way to analyze the distinctive I I I I in breast tumor tissue to identify whether the cancer has spread." Significantly, it 
discusses the clinical significance of the new diagnostic technique, which uses "advanced microscopes 
equipped with tissue-penetrating laser light to measurel I of the 
tumor." 
~-----~[ a professor with the Clinic of Hematology and Medical Oncology at the University 
Medicine Center of I I and a researcher with the I I Institute of Experimental 
Medicine in Germany, attests that the Petitioner "has opened up an entirely new avenue of research in 
the area of imaging the tumor~------~··" I I notes that in her presentation to the 
World Molecular Imaging Congress, the Petitioner introduced a "non-invasive [MR] based imaging 
technique" along with SHG microscopy in breast cancer I I[.]" Her 
"cutting-edge work" was highlighted at the end of the conference because "this was a significant 
advancement over the then-current methods." 
.__ _______ __.I, the chair of the Cancer Imaging and Metabolism Department at the .... l --~ 
Cancer Center, states the Petitioner "has made several significant scientific contributions that have 
solidified her position as one of the top scientists in the field of cancer imaging research" and 
specifically discusses how her work "is already helping cancer researchers gain a clearer 
understanding of tumor biology and create better treatment regimes." Similarly,! I I I the director of research at the I I Research Institute in Australia, notes 
that the Petitioner's "ground-breaking results" in applying and developing new magnetic resonance 
based methods in clinical and preclinical cancer research "have opened an important doo1av to I 
creating new targeted drugs for the sophisticated evaluation and delivery of cancer treatment." I I scientist emeritus at thd !cancer Institute, attests that the Petitioner's method 
of non-invasive tumor imaging "means fewer invasive biopsies -greatly reducing the opportunity for 
adverse events and lowering the overall cost of treatment." 
Concerning the direct impact of the Petitioner's research on clinical practitioners, .... ! _______ ~ 
an associate professor with the Life Science! !Advanced Research Center atl University in 
Japan, states that the Petitioner's "illumination ofl I in the primary tumor" has a major 
clinical significance because it enables "oncologists (while awaiting new drug compounds) to alter 
4 
Matter of S-M-K-
their treatment regimen for patients today[.]" I I notes that prestigious joum .... a_ls ___ _, 
Neo lasia and PloS One ublished the Petitioner's findings that showed "that areas ofl~,---,---~ 
which in tum affected the transport and distribution ...... ---------.,..-------' in the tumor. He also confirms that she "developed an innovative 
.__ ____ __.software to evaluate the I I in these varying tumor.__ ______ __, 
which is used to visualize and understand drug delivery." I I attests that these critical 
observations have allowed him, as a pharmaceutical scientist, to change the "molecular structure of 
compound[ s ]" to account for thel I 
Importantly, he also identifies several national and international research teams that are using the 
Petitioner's work and her "quantitative technique" to "inform their drug development." As additional 
evidence of the value and current use of her work, the record contains journal articles that show how 
her research has contributed to ongoing developments in her field. For example, they indicate that the 
Petitioner's findings, such as her research on breast and prostate cancer tumors, the effects o 
on thd lof tumors, and the have 
provided critical contributions to research at .__ _______ _. University in China, 
University in Sweden, andl I University. The Petitioner also submitted evidence~o-f-_h_e_r~ 
frequent selection for oral presentations at the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine meetings, farther demonstrating the attention her work has garnered. 
With respect to her scholarly articles, the Petitioner has provided evidence of her authorship of a 
considerable amount of published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished 
professional journals. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the 
citation history and other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is an important indicator 
of the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been 
sustained. In this case, the Petitioner has offered reports from Google Scholar as well as evidence 
documenting that the rate at which her articles have been cited is very high for her field. The number 
of research articles she has coauthored and their unusually high rate of citation are commensurate with 
being among the small percentage at the very top of the field and demonstrate that her publication 
record sets her apart through a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
With regard to her participation as a judge of others' work, the record indicates that the Petitioner has 
reviewed numerous manuscripts for renowned professional publications including, among others, the 
Journal of Medical Physics, the Journal of the American Chemical Society, and the Journal of 
Biomedical Optics. She has also reviewed abstracts for the World Molecular Imaging Congress and 
the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, repeatedly serving as a chairperson at 
such conferences. We find the Petitioner's extensive judging experience, together with the 
achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the Petitioner's past contributions, we note that the record reflects significant prospective 
interest in utilizing her expertise in tumor SHG microscopy as part of ongoing research. Specilcally, I 
the record indicates the National Institute of Health awarded a five-year grant I I to the I pniversity .__ _________________ ___, research group, of which the 
5 
Matter of S-M-K-
Petitioner is listed as a co-investigator, to understand and find effective ways to treatl lcancer. 
The submitted evidence also demonstrates how the Petitioner's work developin~ I 
for cancer diagnosis and monitoring treatment is influencing the technological development of ca~ 
research and treatment. I I an engineering manager and chief technology leader atLJ 
Healthcare, affirms that the Petitioner's work "in developing cancer targets that can be non-invasiv~ 
detected in patients and allow continuous monitoring of therapy, complements our work at LJ 
Healthcare that detects early treatment response to breast cancer." Moreover, the Petitioner has 
submitted communications from multiple researchers requesting further information about her 
research and proposing future research collaboration. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability. The totality 
of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that 
she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has documented 
sustained acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise. She therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of S-M-K-, ID# 3180381 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-P-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a field hockey coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as 
required, but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites the evidence submitted previously and contends that he qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of L-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an assistant field hockey coach for the University of I As he has not 
established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following criteria: published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We find that the evidence in the record sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements for these criteria. 
For published material, he submitted an article about him and his work in the field that was 
published in the Irish Times with sufficient evidence indicating that this is the second highest 
circulated newspaper in Ireland. Regarding a leading or critical role, the record contains evidence of 
his role as the eastern developmental officer and chair of the coaching development panel for I I (formerly known as the.__ ________ _.,. In those positions he expanded 
the participation and growth of field hockey in eastern Ireland and played a key role in developing 
the national coaching curriculum set forth by I I As the assistant coach for the 
University ofl I women's field hockey team, he played a critical role in helping the team 
successfully transition into the I l~nd rise in the national rankings. The 
record reflects that these organizations have a distinguished reputation. For high salary, the record 
contains evidence that the Petitioner's salary is high for this position in relation to others in the field 
2 
Matter of L-P-
as shown by documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor. Because the Petitioner has met 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, we will discuss the remaining documentation in 
the context of a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3): see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Here, the Petitioner has shown his eligibility for this classification. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has been featured in published material, has performed a leading 
or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation, and has had a high salary 
relative to others in his field. After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in the final 
merits pursuant to Kazarian, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the 
field. Id. 
For published material, the record contains an article about the Petitioner that was published in the 
Irish Times in 2009 discussing his background in the sport of field hockey and his role as a 
development officer for the I I The record contains evidence of the 
circulation details for the Irish Times, which demonstrates that this article is an indication of the 
Petitioner's national acclaim. 
Regarding his leading or critical roles, the evidence in the record illustrates his roles as a field 
hockey coach and in developing the national coaching programs for Ireland and the United States. 
With respect to his coaching experiences in Ireland,! ~' the strategic development director 
for I I states that in 2007 the Petitioner was named as I I eastern 
development officer. In describing his influence there, ~ notes that this "is a vital role in 
terms of supporting clubs and schools in the province ofc==J which she indicates is "currently 
the largest province in terms of hockey participation with 45 clubs, 212 adult club teams and 65 high 
schools." She adds, "[d]uring his tenure, extremely high participation rates were recorded incl1ding
1 ~h of the girls' club game of 44 percent and growth of the boys' club game of 11 percent." 
l__Jthen attests to his positions as chair of the coaching development panel forl I in 
2011, as a "Head Coach Consultant for the Irish Men's Team and a Specialist Coach for the Irish 
Women's~--------~" These positions demonstrate that the Petitioner has been 
entrusted with overseeing the growth of the sport in a prominent region in Ireland for field hockey 
and that his expertise has been sought out by the Irish I I for the men and women, 
indicating that he has risen to the very top of his field. 
3 
Matter of L-P-
As to his work in developing the national coaching curriculum in Ireland, I I states that the 
Petitioner "was a key person in the development of [their] Coaching Qualifications and Certification 
programs." She adds, "[ w ]ithout his input, the program would not be the success it is today." I I 
I , I the Director General of the I l farther indicates that the 
Petitioner "helped us to develop a coaching and player training curriculum that [is] now the envy of 
the rest of the world." 
.__ ____ __.lalso states that the Petitioner "created an exceptional coaching and core skills DVD for 
hockey coaches and worked tirelessly on la er and coach development, community outreach, and I t Coach Education Manager, similarly states 
that the Petitioner "led the development of.___~ ___ _.Long Term Player Development model, 
drawing on his own experience as an international coach." As an indication that others took notice 
of the Petitioner's work in Ireland , the senior manager of coach education forl I I I and a 1996 ~------~states that she immediately reached out to the Petitioner for 
his assistance in creating the national coaching curriculum in the United States due to his successes 
in Ireland. She indicates that he "developed all the tools and resources in Ireland for the training and 
certification for every level of coaches, from grassroots to High Performance and Olympic Level 
coaches and athletes," noting that "[ t ]his coaching education and certification program is considered 
one of the best in the world." This farther establishes the Petitioner's international acclaim as a field 
hockey coach. 
With respect to his experiences in the United States, the Petitioner highlights his roles in coaching 
and in developing the coaching curriculum for I I. I f, the assistant 
athletic director at the University o±1 I indicates that the University recruited the Petitioner 
to help take its women's field hockey program to a higher level. She states that since the Petitioner's 
time with the program beginning in 2012, "the I ~ave seen their highest [national] ranking at 
I I made thel !tournament for the first time since 2008, [and] earned a regular season 
conference championship in 2013." She adds that the impact he has had on the team is clear due to 
the "success of the team and [the] increase in national profile for the program." The record 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has also been the head coach of al I team. 
Both of these experiences farther establish that the Petitioner has risen to the top of his field. 
Pertaining to his work in develo in the coachin curriculum in the United States 
the Executive Director of the~------------;::::====:::;------ discusses the 
Petitioner's role in improving coaching in the United States. I I states that the I I has 
focused on developing the game of field hockey and improving its "level of competitiveness on the 
world stage." He notes, "[i]n doing so, we have discovered the need to create a uniform system of 
education, training, coaching and a certification program to ensure a high quality level of coaching 
and instruction from volunteer school coaches through the elite level professional and national team 
coaches." I I then indicates, "[t]o accomplish this goal and develop this comprehensive 
program we sought the advice and consultation of [the Petitioner], who experienced incredible 
success in farther developing and advancing the sport of field hockey in several countries including 
South Africa, Venezuela, and Ireland." He also adds, "[t]here really is no one else in the U.S. who 
4 
Matter of L-P-
has the background in developing these types of programs who is also a coach." Similarly, D I I the Director of Coaching Education and Leaming for .__ ______ __, states that the 
Petitioner is one of three individuals who helped create the "standardized coaching curriculum which 
is used throughout the U.S." I I indicates that he "requested [the Petitioner] to be 
involved in the creation of this program due to his successful development of the first standardized 
certification program in Ireland for the '----------~" He notes, "[ w ]hat made his 
certification program unique was that it provided a step-by-step process, with a standardized 
curriculum to be tau~ht through[out] Ireland." He states that they "used his expertise in creating the 
Irish program to help_ I develop a similar standardized program." He indicates that 
after developing the new curriculum, they have run over 35 courses in the United States, with each 
one having approximately 30 registrants. He states that "[t]housands of coaches participate in [the 
coaching clinics] each year." Together with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has 
established that he has risen to the very top of his field with national and international acclaim. 
For salary the record contains a letter from I l the Vice President of the University of I j stating, "[b]ecause [the Petitioner] was so highly regarded, he became one of the highest 
paid Associate Coaches with [the University ofl I and the sport of field hockey." This is 
another indication that the Petitioner has risen to the top of his field. 
For the reasons stated above, the record establishes that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of L-P-, ID# 1668367 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5190719 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Initial Evidence 
The Petitioner is a computer scientist who identified his "Field of Expertise" as "5G ( and beyond) mobile 
network architecture, mobile big data analytics, mobile network verification, cutting edge mobile 
applications, and network/system security." At the time he filed the petition in January 2018, the 
Petitioner identified himself as a "[p ]ostdoc scholar" at the University of I I I I Subsequent submissions indicate that, shortly before the time offilinJ' he had begun seeking 
to commercialize his work through a new company called I 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had met three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria, pertaining to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv); original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We will not disturb these findings. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
1 More recently,_] ____ __,I filed a nonimmigrant petition on his behalf in March 2019; that petition was approved shortly 
afterward. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim; that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor; and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we 
analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner listed his accomplishments in computer science, including the following examples: 
I create~ lthe world's first tool for~-----------~ 
mobile data analytics. 
I proposed and developed a new platform that enables._! ____ ___.I of mobile big 
data among smartphones. 
I proposed and developed the first Jaradigm in the mobile network that parallelizes the I !data access. 
Because the Director did not dispute the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions, we need 
not discuss those contributions in technical detail. At issue here is not the nature or usefulness of the 
Petitioner's contributions, but rather the extent of the acclaim he has earned in his field. 
The Petitioner's mentor atl I stated that the Petitioner "is arguably among the top-two fresh PhD 
graduates in the networking and mobile systems field this year, and one of the top five during the past 
five years." Eligibility requires the Petitioner to be at the top of his field, rather than the subset of 
"fresh PhD graduates." More relevant is the professor's contention that the Petitioner "is among the 
top 1 % computer scientist[s] worldwide." This is either a subjective assessment or an objectively 
verifiable statement. If it is the latter, then it should derive from some empirical basis that exists 
independently ofletters that the Petitioner submitted in support of his petition. 
Various colleagues indicated that the Petitioner's activities reflect his recognition in the field. For 
instance, a professor at.__ ___________ ____.State University stated: 
[The Petitioner] has won J I Best Community Paper A ward in 2016 and 
201 7. His dissertation has won the I I Dissertation Year Fellowship in 2016. This 
evidence strongly suggests that [the Petitioner's] current work has been highly 
recognized by his peers in the scientific community. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
... In recognition of his outstanding research contributions, [the Petitioner] has been 
invited to present his research work at ... significant and highly regarded conferences 
in this field. 
The recognition described above does not indicate national or international acclaim. The I I 
c=]Fellowship is a form of merit-based financial aid for students who, by definition, are still learning 
their trade. The record does not show that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at 
the top of the field. Awards at major conferences carry more weight, but they still represent the 
response of a limited audience to one particular paper. A consistent pattern of such awards from 
different conferences would provide greater support for a finding that the Petitioner has earned 
sustained acclaim (rather than certain contributions receiving attention in the short term). 
A research mana er at si ned a letter indicating that the Petitioner "started to commercialize his 
inventions via.__ _______ ___,--__,.~ in 201 7. . . . In December of 201 7, we have started a 
dialogue with his team to discuss the.__ _ __. s features that are of interest and very complimentary to 
the analytics and performance monitoring systems." This collaboration was at an embryonic stage 
when the Petitioner filed the petition in January 2018, and the individual discussed the project in terms 
of its "potential" and its "anticipated" results. 
The same letter included this passage: 
I have a keen interest in the upcoming product by [the Petitioner's] startup, because of 
its anticipated unique ability to perform the '------------------' analytics inside the smartphones and mobile devices .... 
I firmly believe that [the Petitioner] is an extraordinary technological inventor with an 
industry-oriented mindset. I can, without hesitation, state that he is one of the very few 
top research scientists in the cellular analytics field who has deep insight on the trends 
of the technology, need for advancement and also the commercial utilization of it. 
A letter signed by a principal researcher at .... I ---~I contains similar, at times identical, language: 
My team is very interested in thel I product because of its unique ability to 
perform the.__ _____ __. analytics for the operational mobile networks inside the 
smartphones .... 
I firmly believe that [the Petitioner] is an extraordinary technololical invrtor with an 
industry-oriented mindset. Based on his research track record at he is one of 
the very few top research scientists in the cellular analytics field who has deep insight 
on the technology trend, market needs and commercial utilization. 
An assistant professor atl !university signed a letter stating that the Petitioner "is one of the very 
few top research scientists in the field who has deep insight on the trend of the technology trend and 
4 
need for advancement and also the commercial utilization of it," while the chief executive officer of 
~-------------~ signed a letter calling the Petitioner "one of the top research 
scientists in the field who has deep insight on the trend of the technology, need for advancement and 
also the commercial utilization of it." These similarities strongly indicate common authorship of the 
letters or key portions thereof 
Likewise, two different letters contain the same passage with the same grammatical error: "As an 
inventor myself: I understand this means [the Petitioner's] contribution is going into many research 
labs and industry, and it gains him acclaims [sic] by researchers worldwide." A third letter contains a 
shortened variant: "As an inventor myself, I understand this means [the Petitioner's] contributions 
have received acclaims [sic] by researchers worldwide." (In another apparent indicator of outside 
authorship, an official atl I signed a letter stating that the Petitioner's "contributions 
... could not have been made by an average Ph.D. level chemist." The Petitioner is not a chemist.) 
The systemic use of identical or strongly similar language suggests the language in the letters is not 
the authors' own. Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 
2006) (upholding an immigration judge's adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings 
based in part on the similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of Justice, 489 
F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when 
an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
Even if the letters had been of independent origin, we must also consider the extent to which the record 
objectively supports the claims in the letters. The Petitioner indicated that his "original award-winning 
research contribution has been used by 24 7 universities ... , big companies ... , and 
startups.".__ ____ __. s use by other institutions may speak to its significance, but the Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient context to show that this breadth of application is unusual in the field. 
Also, the significance of a contribution is not synonymous with acclaim for the people behind that 
contribution. Otherwise, the regulations would not require evidence of acclaim beyond those 
contributions. We must examine all the evidence, to determine whether it converges toward an overall 
finding of acclaim. 
The Petitioner stated that his "pioneering research publications ... have been cited over 220 times by 
researchers from 2 7 countries." By way of comparison, the Petitioner's mentor a~ I stated: "My 
work has been cited more than 23,000 times according to Google Scholar." 
The Petitioner submitted statistical analyses from Dimensions, indicating that five of his articles are 
"extremely highly cited," earning between 7.27 and "19 times more citations than average." These 
figures can be misleading, because the range of citations is broad; the most-cited articles can receive 
hundreds or thousands of citations, while others are cited once or not at all. Above average is not 
necessarily synonymous with the top of the field. A submitted printout from Altmetric indicated that 
the Petitioner's most-cited article has a "Good Attention Score compared to outputs of the same age 
(76th percentile)." The Petitioner did not show that "Good" is the highest ranking of attention score, 
and he did not submit attention score information for any of his other articles. From the information 
submitted, one article with a citation record near the bottom of the top quartile is not indicative of 
sustained acclaim, or standing as one in the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
5 
The Petitioner also documented the number of downloads for some of his articles. The Petitioner 
stated that one of his articles "received 1,618 downloads, which is ... objective evidence to prove that 
[he] as sustained national or international acclaim." The download count only shows how many people 
have had the opportunity to read the article; it does not tell us the article's subsequent effect on those 
who downloaded it. The same document that showed the download count of 1618 also showed 
"Citation Count: 4." If downloads rarely result in citations, then the download count does not appear 
to correlate directly to the article's influence. 
The Petitioner compared his recent productivity and citation rates to those of"highly reputable leading 
scientists," whom the Petitioner also referred to as "highly esteemed scientists." Biographical 
information relating to these individuals indicates that their overall accomplishments and reputations 
substantially exceed those of the Petitioner. The Petitioner does not place himself among their ranks 
simply by showing that his output was, by some measures, comparable to theirs from 2016 to 2018. 
The Director stated that the Petitioner had published scholarly articles "in prestigious journals," and 
that "some of [his] papers are frequently cited," but concluded that the Petitioner had not provided a 
sufficient basis for comparison to show that he is at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner stated: "Due to my outstanding contributions ... , I have been invited and have served 
as an expert reviewer for the ... world's top conferences and journals." The Petitioner documented 
his peer review work, which the Director recognized under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but he did not 
submit evidence from the conference organizers and journal publishers to establish how they select 
peer reviewers. Several conference-related peer review invitations came from the same source, who 
is one of the Petitioner's frequent collaborators. Therefore, the Petitioner has not supported his 
assertion that the peer review invitations were "[ d]ue to [his] outstanding contributions" rather than 
more mundane factors such as, for example, his involvement in the field or submitting his name to 
volunteer as a peer reviewer. 
Several review invitations in the record included this request: "If you are unable to complete the 
review at this time, we would be grateful if you could recommend a qualified student, postdoc, or 
colleague to review this paper." This demonstrates that a student in the Petitioner's field can qualify 
as a peer reviewer even while their training is incomplete. One peer review invitation from September 
2018 appeared to indicate that the Petitioner was chosen as a reviewer because the paper under 
consideration included a citation to the Petitioner's work. Some review invitations referred to the 
Petitioner's expertise in his field, but expertise is not the same as national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner did not show that his participation in peer review demonstrated acclaim. 
The Petitioner notes on appeal that he "is a winner and recipient of the National Science Foundation's 
(NSF) Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Award based on his excellent research results and 
future development proposal submitted in 2018." What the Petitioner describes as an award is a grant 
to fond continued research and development. At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was 
"currently applying" for the grant; the approval occurred in January 2019, a year after the filing date. 
Documentation about applying for the grant does not show that eligibility rests on "excellent research 
results." Rather, NSF's website, quoted in the record, indicated that "[t]he NSF SBIR program seeks 
innovative proposals that show promise of commercial and societal impact." A purpose of "Phase I 
6 
proposals," like the one involving the Petitioner, is to "establish[] technical feasibility or proof of 
concept of unproven, risky technologies." 
The Petitioner has shown that he is a capable and productive researcher, whose work has been of value 
in his field. Nevertheless, the materials cited as evidence of his claimed stature at the top of his field 
rely on limited comparisons (such as comparing the citation rate of an article to the citations of other 
articles in the same issue of the same journal). This method highlights the Petitioner's most successful 
publications, without showing a consistent pattern of such success. Focusing only on the Petitioner's 
most highly-cited articles conflates isolated "contributions of major significance" with an overall 
pattern of "sustained acclaim." 
In terms of the Petitioner's demonstrable impact, commercialization of his work was still at a very 
early stage at the time of filing, and the record provides little information aboutl I other than to 
establish that it exists ( or existed as of 2018). 
The objective evidence in the record indicates that some of the Petitioner's most recent efforts have 
attracted attention in the field, and authorities such as the Small Business Administration view his 
work as promising. The record is less persuasive with respect to the realization of that promise, and 
solicited descriptions of the Petitioner's claimed standing in the field show unmistakable evidence of 
shared authorship, which undermines the claimed independence of those descriptions and thus their 
value as evidence of sustained acclaim. 
The record, as a whole, does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the record shows that the Petitioner's accomplishments have been well 
received, the totality of the evidence does not indicate he has sustained national or international acclaim 
and he is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-O-O-S-S-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a law firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which she must meet at least three. In addition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary will continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that the Beneficiary fulfills at least three of the ten 
criteria.1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 The Petitioner does not address the Director's issue relating to the Beneficiary's intent to continue to work in her area of 
extraordinary ability. 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner submitted a statemer from the Beneficiary claiming that she has worked as a geologist 
at I lin the I since April 2017.2 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Beneficiary reviewed manuscripts for scientific journals. 
In addition, she authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
Further, we find that the Petitioner demonstrated published material about the Beneficiary in 
professional publications, satisfying the published material criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 The record does not contain any independent, supporting evidence confirming the Beneficiary's employment. 
2 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets three criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim4 and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 5 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting the Beneficiary's academic history. 
Specifically, the Beneficiary received her bachelor's degree from I I University in 2003, her 
master's degree froml !University in 2006, and her doctorate degree from the University of I lin 2014. Moreover, as indicated earlier, the Beneficiary claimed to be working as a geologist 
for ,1 I in thd I since 201 7' as Tell as prvious employment at the l I 
Institute I I for Resource Technology" in Germany. 6 As mentioned above, 
professional publications produced material about the Beneficiary, she judged the work of others 
within her field, and she authored scholarly articles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that 
her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published material about the Beneficiary, the Petitioner offered four articles in professional 
publications. Specifically, the Petitioner submitted an article (2011) from the University ofl I 
Faculty of Geo-I11formation Science and Earth Observation (ITC) News about the Beneficiary 
receiving a travel grant and presenting at a conference. Moreover, the Petitioner provided two articles 
(2011 and2014) from the International Association for Mathematical Geosciences (IAMG) Newsletter 
indicating the Beneficiary's travel award and conference and reporting on her recruitment of new 
IAMG members to ITC. Further, the Petitioner supplied an article (2014) from the Geological Remote 
Sensing Group (GRSG) Newsletter reporting on the Beneficiary's defense of her Ph.D. dissertation. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate 
the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
6The P~did not provide any corroborating evidence relating to the Beneficiary's employment with ·I .... __ _, 
Institutl____Jg for Resource Techuology." 
3 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that four articles published about the Beneficiary are 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary's overall press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that four articles, published in 2011 and 2014, reflect a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Furthermore, the newsletters reflect coverage of the Beneficiary limited to the associations or 
universities while studying for her higher education degrees rather than widespread reporting on her 
accomplishments in the field showing sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 
1991 ). 7 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that its submission of four articles meets this very high 
standard. 
As it pertains to her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 8 The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that the Beneficiary served as a reviewer for the Arabian Journal of Geosciences, 
the International Journal of Applied Earth Observations and Geoi11formation, the International 
Journal of Geographical Information Science, and the American Association of Petroleum Geologists 
Bulletin, as well as on a panel judging theses at ITC and evaluating abstracts at the European 
Geoscience Union annual conference. 9 However, the Petitioner did not establish that her judging 
instances places her among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to others at the 
very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging occurrences contribute to a finding that 
she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress or indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the 
field based on her work as a manuscript, thesis, or abstract reviewer. 
7 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
8 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
9 The Petitioner did not demonstrate the number of manuscripts, theses, or abstracts reviewed by the Beneficiary, nor did 
it document when they all occurred. 
4 
Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-
Moreover, serving on a judging committee or in the peer review process does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as 
evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests 
relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired 
technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
peer review experience places her among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the publication ofresearch does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 10 Here, 
the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored six articles that were 
published in professional journals between 2006 and 2014, as well as three abstracts from conference 
proceedings. 11 However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent 
with having a "career of acclaimed work" or qualifies for this "very high standard." See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's 
authorship of six published articles is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In addition, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary 
has sustained national or international acclaim as her most recent article was last published in 2014. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other geologists have been influenced by her 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that the 
Beneficiary's articles garnered 110 citations and her conference abstracts received 4 citations. While 
the Beneficiary's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed her work, 
the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in 
the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to the Beneficiary's research 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare the Beneficiary's authored 
works to others in her field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in her field. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
10 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
11 The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary authored five additional articles; however, it did not demonstrate whether they 
were ever published. 
5 
Matter of L-0-0-S-S-S-
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
As it relates to awards, the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility based on her receipt of a 
"2011 I I Grant A ward" from the International Association of Mathematical Geosciences 
(IAMG), "2012 Grant Award" from IAMG, and "2013 .__ _____ _. 
Scholarship" from the University ofl ~ Scholarship Program. Although scholarships, grants, 
or fellowships may be recognized in academia, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such financial 
aid fonding is tantamount to nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor, geology. In addition, awards won by the Beneficiary competing 
against other students do not indicate that she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for immigrant 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In addition, even considering that the Beneficiary received her last financial 
aid grant approximately five years ago, the Petitioner did not show that it is representative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's membership with IAMG between 2011 
and 2013. However, the record demonstrates that this association is generally open to "geoscientists, 
statisticians, and other interested individuals or organizations." Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary's membership with a single association represents an individual who is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not show that the Beneficiary's membership with IAMG approximately five years ago resulted in 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§204.5(h)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that summarized the Beneficiary' work 
and contributions in the field. The letters, however, do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary is viewed 
by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary has made impactfol or influential contributions to her field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field," garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserted that the Benefic~ed a critical role to IAMG by serving as the 
chair for the student chapter at the University ofL___j However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's role was reflective of: or resulted in, widespread acclaim from her field or that 
she is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, 
the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary held leading or critical roles for organizations or 
establishments with distingyished reputations, nor does it show that her role for the IAMG student 
chapter at the University ofl lover four years ago represents sustained national or international 
acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
6 
Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Moreover, as discussed above, the Petitioner barely documented the 
Beneficiary's accomplishments or achievements since 2014. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 12 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition 
proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-O-O-S-S-S-, ID# 4250421 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
12 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act 
we need not consider whether she intends to continue working in her area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-A-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents previously submitted documentation and a brief, arguing that she 
fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievement s have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of J-A-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously performed as singer for the bands,I I andl I and 
indicates current employment with thel I Because she has not indicated or established 
that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). However, for the reasons discussed later, 
the record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated her eligibility for the published material 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she fulfills six additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on receiving a "Gold Record A ward" for selling 
20,000 copies of an album while a member ofl I The record contains a photograph of the 
2 
Matter of J-A-A-
"Gold Record Award" issued by the band's record company,.__ ________ ___, In addition, 
the Petitioner submitted! l's compact disc and Jhotographs of the band's performance of a 
song on a Filipino television show, 'I !" 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
her evidence shows that the field recognizes the record company's award as a national or international 
award for excellence. 4 Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that.__ _________ _. s 
"Gold Record Award" is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on being "a contract artist and/or 
member" ofl las a lead vocalist forl I as well as a lead singer fog 
and I I The record reflects that the Petitioner provided a document fro 
Bcertifying the Petitioner's employment as a contract artist order while a member of 
In addition, she submitted screenshots from.__ ______ ___, highlighting another artist. Further, 
she presented employment letters relating to her performances with the I I at several 
venues, such as hotels, pubs, and cafes. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner must show that membership 
in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that employment withl I as a contract artist constitutes "membership" in an 
association. Moreover, the Petitioner also claims her I I employment qualifies as a 
leading or critical role under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct 
1 The Petitioner claimed that'---------~ later became._! _____ _. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (instructing that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution. for example. may have little national or international significance). 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Matter of J-A-A-
criterion that will be discussed later. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet 
at least three separate criteria, we will generally not consider evidence to the leading or critical role 
criterion. 
In addition, although the Petitioner's evidence demonstrates her membership with the bands, she did 
not show how her evidence reflects that outstanding achievements are required for band membership. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the individuals responsible for judging the membership 
candidates are comprised ofrecognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying 
published material and explaining her determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 6 Because the Petitioner did not 
establish that her evidence meets the regulatory requirements of this criterion, discussed below, we 
will withdraw the findings of the Director. 
At the outset, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted advertisements and flyers forl 
I ~s concerts, including ads in publications such as Bandwidth, Okinawa Marine, an~d_R_c_n_·i-an~ 
Analisa. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how such marketing materials for the band 
reflect published material about her. 7 In addition, she did not offer evidence showing that the 
publications qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. 8 Further, the Petitioner did not include the required title, date, and author of 
the material. 
Moreover, the Petitioner presented an article entitled, .__ ________________ __. 
published in the Saipan Tribune. The article, however, relates to the band and its upcoming 
performance rather than published material about the Petitioner. In fact, the Petitioner is mentioned 
only one time as being one of the band members. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide evidence showing that the Saipan Tribune is a professional 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that marketing materials created for the purpose of 
selling products or promoting services are not generally considered to be published material about the petitioner). 
8 Id. (providing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the petitioner should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and show the intended audience). 
4 
Matter of J-A-A-
or major trade publication or other major medium. In addition, the Petitioner did not include the 
required author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from abs-cbnnews.com reflecting the posting of 
'! I" itj I 2013. The Petitioner, however, did not 
establish how a video ofl l's performance qualifies as published material about her. Moreover, 
the Petitioner did not establish that abs-cbnnews.com represents a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Also, she did not include the required author of the material. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted al 12007 article reflecting published material about her 
in Beach Road Magazine. 9 However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence demonstrating that the 
magazine is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not include the required title and author of the article. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. Therefore, 
we withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she participated as a judge for singing contests at an elementary 
and high school. Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner performed as a singer for three bands in concert at various 
venues, such as hotels, resorts, and pubs. Therefore, the Petitioner established that she satisfies this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues that she fulfills this criterion based on her role as a "leading vocalist" with 111 0 I andl l as well as a "talent/artist/member" ofl I ~ As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or establishment's activities. It is not 
9 The record also contains a copy of a cover and table of contents for Beach Road Magazine for anl 12007 article 
entitled, I I" However, the Petitioner did not submit the article and include the author. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the a1iicle represents published material about her in a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of J-A-A-
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 11 
As it relates to her role with I I and thd I the Petitioner submitted sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that she performed in a leading role. Specifically, the Petitioner served as one 
of three band members for I I and performed as the leading vocalist for the I I 
However, she did not establish that the bands enjoy distinguished reputations. 12 While the Petitioner 
submitted evidence indicating thatl lsold 20,000 copies of its album, she did not explain how 
such receipts indicatd ts eminent status. She did not, for example, distinguish the band from 
others or differentiate its achievements or accomplishments. 
As it pertains to.__ _____ --., the Petitioner provided letters and contracts verifying its 
performances at various locations, such as the Philippines, Mariana Islands, and Malaysia. However, 
the Petitioner did not show how the performances reflect the band's reputation. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not demonstrate that the band garnered significant media coverage or sold out venues 
establishing that its performances resulted in a distinguished reputation. 
Moreover, regarding her role with I I, the Petitioner did not show that she performed 
in a leading or critical role. In fact, the Petitioner provided only one letter fro~ I food 
and beverage manager for thel I Philippines, who confirmed her employment 
with the band as a singer. The letter does not provide specific details explaining her duties or showing 
how she contributed to the success or standing of the band. 13 In addition, the Petitioner did not offer 
evidence establishing that the band garnered a distinguished reputation. 
Regarding I [ as discussed under the membership criterion, the Petitioner submitted 
an employment certification confirming her contract as an artist while a member ofl I. The 
Petitioner, however, did not establish how her role as a band member reflected her performance in a 
leading or critical role for~~----~as a whole. She did not show, for example, how her role 
qualified for a leadership position or that she significantly impacted the company's activities or 
outcomes overall. Further, while the record contains screenshots from I I about 
another artist, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the company's standing or excellent reputation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
11 Id. 
12 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence. distinction. 
or excellence). 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
Matter of J-A-A-
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner contends that her receipt of a "Gold Record Award" for selling 20,000 copies of I l's album "is of such magnitude to be simply considered a commercial success." The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, "as 
shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." Moreover, the evidence 
must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 14 Although the Petitioner 
demonstrated thau Is album sold 20,000 copies, she did not show the significance or relevance 
of the figures. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that such sales numbers qualify as a "commercial 
success" in the Philippines consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
7 
Matter of J-A-A-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-A-A-, ID# 1576701 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a music composer and trombonist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievement s have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospecti vely the 
United States. 
Matter of J-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only the judging 
and artistic display criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), respectively. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner judged singing competitions and performed at music festivals. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's decision for these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfies two additional regulatory criteria, discussed 
below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a 
finding that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role as a trombonist for the 
Georgian! l For a leading role, the evidence must establish 
that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
2 
Matter of J-T-
role is or was, in fact, leading. 1 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a 
petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization 
or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the 
role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 2 
The record includes three letters of support from.__ _______ _. general many er of tlhe Georgia 
.__ _______ __. stating that the Petitioner "was the solo trombone player" of from 2012 
until March 2017 and that the orchestra performed his musical arrangements. The Director determined 
that this information was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner had performed in a leading or 
critical role fo~ I 
With the appeal, the Petitioner offers additional letters of support from various Georgian musicians 
discussing his role for I ~ 3 These letters all indicate that the Petitioner performed as solo 
trombonist for the orchestra from "2014-2017." For instance, the letter froml I 
professor of classical music at I !Conservatory, noted that the Petitioner "earned his place" 
with I I in 2014. Regarding the years the Petitioner performed with I I the information in the 
letters of support presented on appeal contradicts the information in the three letters from ~ I I asserting that the Petitioner was a solo trombonist beginning in 2012. The Petitioner 
must resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner has not explained 
or rectified the inconsistency relating to the actual years when he performed forl I 
Re,ardles!' the information in the letters of support is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's role 
for was leading or critical. For example,.__ ______ _. principal composer, chief 
conductor, and artistic director ofl I asserted that the Petitioner "was the only solo trombonist" 
and "played a crucial role within our organization." WhilP-1 I farther stated that the 
Petitioner's "technique as a trombonist was unique and allowed us to play works with important solo 
trombone parts or important trombone parts that we would not have otherwise attempted," he did not 
sufficiently explain how the Petitioner's position was a leading role to s lavera)) Tof significant 
importance to the orchestra's success or standing in the field. In addition,.__ ___ ___.did not discuss 
the Petitioner's position within orchestra's organizational hierarchy, and indicate how his role 
compared to the other musicians ( such as concertmaster or other section leaders) to demonstrate that 
it was a leading one. 
Furthermore, I I a solo oboist with the I I State Opera Orchestra," contended 
that the Petitioner's "role in I I is a critical one." In the same manner as I I D 
I I explained that the Petitioner's role is critical because "the orchestra would likel):'. not 
perform a number of serious works" without him. The aforementioned letters from ~ 
I 11 I and~ _____ __, however do not adequately explain how the 
Petitioner has influenced the overall reputation or status ofE:::j to show his role was critical. Nor 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
2 Id. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
Matter of J-T-
do any of remaining letters of support provide sufficient information indicating how the Petitioner 
contributed to that organization's success or standing in the music field so as to demonstrate a critical 
role. Moreover, while the appellate submission includes promotional material listing the Petitioner as 
trombonist at various concerts, the record does not show that these performances constituted a leading 
or critical role for I I overall. 
Finally, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the organizations or establishments to 
have a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 4 The 
Petitioner submitted information aboutl lfrom its website, but this information is not sufficient 
to demonstrate that the orchestra has distinguished reputation in the music field. USCIS need not rely 
on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ctf'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 
(C.A.9). In addition, the appellate submission includes articles and information about Bjork, a singer­
songwriter from Iceland, in Vogue, Georgia Today, Georgian Journal, IMDb.com, and Wikipedia. 5 
The articles in Vogue, Georgia Today, and Georgian Journal briefly mention that Bjork performed 
wit~ I but they do not discuss the reputation ofl I or its eminence in the field. The Petitioner 
also provides letters of support from various Georgian musicians asserting that I I has a 
~uished reputation. For instance,! I chairman of the Georgian! I 
l_____Jcontends that I lis "the most prestigious orchestra in our nation, and indeed, renowned in 
the world." However, the record does not include sufficient evidence to corroborate the information 
in the letters of support or otherwise show thatl I has distinguished reputation relative to other 
orchestras. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner presented a June 2015 service agreement from D I !Musical Studio for providing musical arrangements at three concerts for compensation of 
3,500 GEL. In addition, he submitted a June 2014 employment contract from I I 
I I reflecting a monthly salary of 3,500 GEL for his services as a "music arranger and solo trombone 
player." On appeal, the Petitioner provides his bank statements reflecting monthly incoming monetary 
transfers of3,200 GEL from 2014-2017. 
The record also includes information from the National Statistics Office of Georgia (NSOG) listing an 
"average" monthly salary of 624.9 GEL in 2015 for workers grouped in "the National Classification of 
'Entertainment Activities."' This broad category of arts occupations includes "[a]ctivities in the field of 
performing arts[,] ensembles and theaters, orchestras and musical groups, actors, directors, musicians, 
authors, conferences, sculptors, artists, cartoonists, engravings, artists, theatrical artists, decorators and 
actors." The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not just a salary that is above average 
for artists in the "Entertainment Activities" classification. Because the aforementioned contracts enlisted 
the Petitioner's services as a music arranger or trombone player, offering salary information for a broad 
range of occupations in the Georgian entertainment industry does not provide an appropriate basis for 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10-11. 
5 The information from IMDb.com and Wikipedia relates only to Bjork and does not mentiorl._ _ __. 
4 
Matter of J-T-
comparison in demonstrating that his compensation constitutes a high salary relative to "others in the 
field." 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the salary information he presented from NSOG constitutes an appropriate 
basis for comparison. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance and recognition of his work are indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-T-, ID# 4312187 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-L-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 1, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an "alien of extraordinary ability" in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3), which requires documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he would continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
In his appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director erred in finding he did not meet the initial evidence 
requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3) . The Petitioner further states that the evidence 
demonstrates his standing as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of A-L-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been a competitive athlete, instructor, referee, and judge in 
several martial arts forms including kung fo, wushu, karate, and tai chi. He seeks to continue his work 
as a martial arts instructor in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any 
of the ten criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). For the reasons discussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the 
initial evidentiary requirements. 
1 We note that the Petitioner states on appeal that his gold medal at the 2017~Martial Artsl !Championship 
is "comparable to a Nobel prize or other internationally recognized award," but he does not specifically claim that it 
satisfies the one-time achievement criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(h)(3). Rather, the Petitioner submitted the award as 
evidence of his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We briefly note that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4) does 
not allow for submission of "comparable evidence" relating to the one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor does the record demonstrate that the noted award qualifies as such an achievement. 
2 
Matter of A-L-S-
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's awards received as a competitive martial 
arts athlete, but declined to consider these since the Petitioner is petitioning as a martial arts instructor. 
We disagree with the Director's analysis and will consider this evidence. 2 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he received a gold medal at the 2017 D I l Martial Arts Championship held in I 13 The record includes what appears to be an 
official event photograph of the Petitioner with a medal, on which he is identified as the 'I I 
c=JGold Medalist." Based on the limited information provided by this document, this event was 
sponsored by~---------------~~ The record does not contain any other 
evidence related to this event or to the Petitioner's performance in the event, such as official results, a 
list of competitors, the event's entrance requirements or rules, or media coverage of the event. 
The language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to 
establish every element of this criterion. The record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's win 
at the 20171 I event constitutes his receipt of a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence that referenced his gold medal at thi.,....,.................. This 
evidence included a letter from his current employer J I Law College in which 
notes that his award is "a noteworthy and exemplary achievement as he is the first.__ _____ ____. 
to bag this Gold Medal in the history of I I Martial Arts Championship." The Petitioner also 
submitted a letter from the Rotary Club of I l where he teaches tai chi on a voluntary basis. 
The club's secretary references the 201 7 gold medal and notes that the Petitioner "is the first person 
from our country to get this top award." However, these statements from individuals who know the 
Petitioner personally but have not claimed or established expertise in martial arts are insufficient to 
establish that he won a nationally or internationally recognized award. 
2 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and 
has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider 
the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM chapter 22.22( i)( I)( C) ( emphasis in original). 
3 The Petitioner submitted documentation of two other awards that he received as a competitive athlete but he has neither 
claimed nor provided evidence that these are lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the 
field. One is a "Certificate of Merit Pa11icipation" indicating tha~ awarded first place in the "Kata" category at the 
199 ,.__ _______ _. Karate Championship held at theL__JAcademy of Martial Arts at the age of 13. The 
other is a certificate indicating his first place medal in the I I at The ~-------....,,...... 
Taekwondo Championships held inl I in 2004. Neither award was accompanied by any additional 
evidence that would establish that they are nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
3 
Matter of A-L-S-
For example, he has not shown that his win attracted the level of media attention that might indicate 
the award's national or international recognition. Moreover, he has not submitted information about 
the individuals who participated in the event, including their caliber and skill level, which might reveal 
the prestige and recognition of the competition. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 
supra, 6 (providing that for this criterion we should consider "[t]he number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors" and that "an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution ... may have little national or international significance"). 
The Petitioner also submitted two letters, one from thel I Full Contact Association, 
and one from thd IN ational Sports Council, which refer to the Petitioner's receipt of a gold medal 
in thq I Championship held inl 12017. However, the only corroborating 
evidence provided is an "International Certificate" issued to him for participation in this event as a 
referee. A letter from the event sponsor, thel ~, confirms that 
the Petitioner was invited to serve as a judge at the event and to perform a demonstration for the closing 
ceremony. Thel Is statement indicates he was awarded a gold medal "as a [t]oken of 
[a]ppreciation." Therefore, evidence does not establish that the Petitioner earned a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence at this event. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner initially submitted certificates of his qualifications issued by the 
World United Martial Arts Federation (WUMA). These certificates indicate that he was recognized 
as a Class A WUMA International Referee, a 3rd degree black sash in kung fu, and a 2nd degree black 
belt as a wushu instructor. These certificates do not equate to nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The certificates establish that the Petitioner earned these 
ranks based on his successful completion of a required skills test or examination, but he has not 
established that these rank certificates constitute either prizes or awards, nor has he submitted 
documentation, such as media reports, demonstrating that his rankings have received national or 
international recognition. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that satisfies this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner gat he submitted evidence that he is the General Secretary of the WUMA Kung 
Fu Associatio the Vice President of thd , lw orld Martial Arts Association; an honorary 
member of the Goju-Kai Karate Association; and a member of the I 1 I Kyokushin 
Karate Association. 4 The Petitioner asserts that this evidence was not properly evaluated. In order to 
4 The submitted documentation indicates that the Petitioner was approved as a "Lifelong Member" in the~I ---~ 
Kyokushkin Karate Association in November 2018, ten months after he filed this petition. Therefore, this evidence cannot 
establish his eligibility at the time of filing and we will not further address it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). For the same, 
reason, we will not consider evidence indicating that the Petitioner was appointed as an honorary member of the World 
Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in October 2018. A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
4 
Matter of A-L-S-
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an assocrnt10n, and that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I Administrative Officer of the Association Co­
ordination Section of thel , INational Sports Coun~il. He confirms that the Petitioner was formerly 
the "Founder General Secretary" of the I IWUMA King Fu Association and is currently a vice 
president of that association. I I mentions the Petitioner's experience as an athlete, referee, 
and judge at various martial arts competitions, and states that he is "a valued extraordinary player, 
trainer, Judge and official." However, while the record confirms the Petitioner's roles as both general 
secretary and, later, vice president of the I I WUMA Kung Fu Association, neither this letter nor 
the other evidence in the record mentions the membership requirements for this association to show 
that it requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner states that a "letter dated 11/06/2018 from the National Sports Council" indicates that 
he is "Vice President ofthel !World Martial Arts Association." However, the evidence does not 
establish that the I I WUMA Kung Fu Association" and the I !World Martial Arts 
Association" are two different associations. In fact the referenced letter states that the Petitioner was 
elected vice president ofl IWUMA Kung-Fu Association as of March 2018. We note that the 
Petitioner submitted little other information about the association. The record reflects that WUMA 
Kung Fu Associatiotj lwas designated the National Martial Arts Committee (NMAC) , I 
by the World Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in January 2017, but without evidence of the 
association's membership requirements and selection criteria, we cannot determine that the 
Petitioner's officer roles with this association meet the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the Secretary General ofD Goju-kai Karate-do Association 
along with a "Certificate of Honorary Member" issued by this organization. The letter states that the 
Petitioner was recommended for honorary membership by the "National Specialist Selection 
Committee of Sports" with a full quorum of three members, and approved by the Central Executive 
Committee. The letter mentions the Petitioner's "outstanding success and extraordinary achievement 
in the field of Martial Arts." However, the Petitioner provided insufficient independent evidence of 
the membership requirements for this association and the record does not establish that membership 
qualifications are judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For these reasons the Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of lzummi, 22 T&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing 
Matter of Bardouille, 18 l&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981 ), further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into 
being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
Matter of A-L-S-
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director did not directly address the published materials in his decision, although the Petitioner 
initially claimed he was submitting evidence to meet this criterion. The Director, citing to Matter of 
Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550 (BIA 1976), did not consider the evidence because the submitted certificate 
of translation did not accompany the translated documents or certify the translations as complete. 
We have reviewed the published materials and note that even if the Director had found that the 
submitted certificate of translation was sufficient, the submitted evidence would not meet this 
criterion. The Petitioner submitted 24 articles published inl I newspapers Rajdhani, Annapurna, 
Himalaya Times, Gorkhapatra, Naya Patrika, Nepal Samarchar Patra, and Commander Post. While 
most of the articles briefly mention the Petitioner, none of them are about him. For example, many of 
the articles are identical in content and note that the Petitioner participated alongside 21 others in a 
two day seminar for kung fu instructors which was organized b~ I WUMA Kung Fu Association. 
Other articles note the achievements of students at the academy where the Petitioner works as an 
instructor and note that he served as the team trainer, while others reported that the I IWUMA 
Kung Fu Association traveled to Bangkok for the First World Martial Arts Competition with the 
Petitioner as their team leader. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We also note that none 
of the submitted articles identify the author of the material, as required by the regulations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide documentation demonstrating that any of these newspapers 
are considered professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, noting that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that identified him as a "referee" and testimonial evidence regarding his 
performance as a judge that was not corroborated by other evidence in the record. We disagree and 
find that the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he meets this criterion. 
The evidence confirms the Petitioner's participation as a judge at the aforementioned I I Open 
Championship where, according to the I lpresident, he "served as a judge for several fights that 
were being held." The Petitioner also submitted an invitation letter, a certificate, and a letter from the 
WMAC confirming his role as a "Judge in forms and kickboxing categories" at the 20161 I Martial 
Arts I lheld inl l The corroborated evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge 
of the work of others was not limited to these two events. 
Therefore, the evidence sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
6 
Matter of A-L-S-
C. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not folly 
address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does 
not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the 
classification sought. 6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his athletic accomplishments is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act, we need not determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability" under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and will not address the Director's separate finding with respect 
to that issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-L-S-, ID# 5107649 (AAO Oct. 1, 2019) 
6 This review included consideration of testimonial evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatory 
criterion, such as reference letters from the Petitioner's current and former students and references from professional 
associates familiar with the Petitioner's skills as a martial artist. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not submitted properly certified English language 
translations of his documents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief maintaining that he provided complete and accurate certified 
English language translations for his documents. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofY-P-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a foll English language translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete 
and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
Id. In denying the petition, the Director stated: "Because you did not offer properly certified English 
language translations identifying the corresponding foreign language documents, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports your claims." 
Our review of the record indicates the Petitioner provided "Certificate[s] of Accuracy" that 
immediately preceded the English language translations for his Chinese language documents. 1 In 
addition, many of the Petitioner's documents were in English and did not require a translation. 2 While 
we acknowledge the Director's concern that the Petitioner's Certificates of Accuracy did not list the 
specific documents they accompanied, these certifications and their accompanying English language 
translations sufficiently comply with the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
Accordingly, the Director's decision does not present a proper basis for denial. The Director should 
1 These signed and notarized certificates stated: 'This is to certify that my name is I I and I am competent in 
both Chinese and English and the attached translation from Chinese to English is accurate and complete to the best ofmy 
knowledge." 
2 For example, the letters of support from I 11 l and I were all written in English. Also. several 
of the Petitioner's other documents included duplicate sections with both English and Chinese text. 
2 
Matter ofY-P-
have evaluated both the documents properly translated from Chinese and those in the English 
language. 
Because the Director did not render a determination as to whether the Petitioner has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we are remanding for him to consider whether the Petitioner has met his 
burden of proof with respect to these criteria. Furthermore, if the Director determines that the 
Petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for farther 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter ofY-P-, ID# 5107130 (AAO Oct. 2, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-R-D-S-B-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 2, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a foreign trade executive , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that at the time of filin the Petitioner was workin as the shareholder and CEO 
of~-------------------------~ an international trading 
company based in Brazil. He states that he is an expert in the field of foreign trade, with expertise in 
identifying business segments, markets, companies, and trademarks "that have potential to grow and 
become an asset for foreign trade." Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that in 2013 he performed 
as a judge for the I I project developed by the I I I I Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below: the awards 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the membership in associations criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the original 
2 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the leading or critical role criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). He farther 
argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. We have reviewed all of the evidence in 
the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements 
of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence regarding the following awards, which he highlights on appeal: 
• Order of Business Merit 2009 from the ~------------------~ (awarded to the Petitioner) 
• Quality A ward -South America 2009 from the ~---------------~ 
• Top Quality Award -Export of Packaging Materials 2009 from the ~1------~ 
• Brazilian National Quality Award 2009, 
.___ _______ __.I '-------------------~ 
• To and Excellence Award~2-0-09_, _________________ ~J 
ir---------,- _ __J and the 1.--_--~-------------------,...J! 
• Top Quality Brazil Award -Export 2008, I I L----------' 
The Director determined that the evidence the Petitioner provided regarding these awards did not meet 
the regulatory criteria because it did not establish that the awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the evidence he provided regarding these awards 
does in fact meet the regulatory requirements. 
Regarding the Petitioner's receipt of the Order of Business Merit, the record contains his award 
certificate. In addition, the record includes information from the webpage www.ordens.presidencia.pt 
and from Wikipedia about the Order of Entrepreneurial Merit awarded by the Portuguese Republic. 1 
However, the Petitioner has not explained, and the record does not establish, how this evidence 
pertains to the award certificate he received from th ~-----------------~ Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the award he received rises to the level of a nationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. 
1 We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the 
validity of its content. See Wikipedia, General Disclaimer, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; 
see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
3 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
For the remaining awards listed by the Petitioner, we note that they were awarded tol I not to 
the Petitioner himself. According to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
the evidence must establish that a petitioner is the recipient of the prizes or the awards. The Petitioner 
asserts that asl l's shareholder and CEO the company's award "resulted solely from [his] 
exceptional knowledge, expertise and management" and emphasizes that "[t]he success of a CEO is 
deeply linked to the success of the company." While the Petitioner may have been instrumental to the 
success of the company, it remains that he is not the recipient of the award. Even if we, in principle, 
determined that the Petitioner may rely on awards his company received, the Petitioner has not 
provided sufficient corroborating evidence that he, as the founder of the company, was responsible for 
the recognized achievements. 
In addition, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner has not established that these awards are n~ 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 2 The award letter from thel____J I I indicates that the award "seeks to recognize and highlight the dedication of. 
the organizations that constantly care about the professional quality of [their] products and services," 
but the record does not contain evidence establishing that the award is recognized nationally or 
internationally for excellence in the field beyond the awarding entity. The Petitioner submitted a case 
study dated 2001 from a quality management research group titled, ''---.-----.,..,..-----------' 
comparing the evaluation criteria of five 
"internationally recognized quality awards" with those of thel I quality management program. 
The study does not address the level of national or international recognition of the I I ~-~ 
Information submitted about I I describes it as "a non-profit organization whose purpose is to 
support, guide, congregate, defend and promote companies and institutions about quality" in all fields, 
not just in the area of foreign trade. The I I award certificate states "[t]his acknowledgement 
of Quality Incentive is obtained via Public Opinion." An accompanying Evaluation Report shows the 
company received a score based upon completion of a questionnaire rating the company on such 
criteria as consumer satisfaction and suppliers' relationship. These materials indicate thel I 
award was based upon the high praise earned by the Petitioner's company from individual clients and 
suppliers. Similarly, materials submitted re ardin the Top Quality Brazil Award shows that the award 
was based upon responses obtained from 's customers, suppliers, collaborators, and partners. 
Further, the award certificate for the.__ ____ _. award states that it is for "services rendered to our 
entity." This documentation does not demonstrate the recognition that any of those awards received 
in the field beyond those awarding entities. For example, the record does not contain media coverage 
regarding the awards in the trade or general media. Without additional evidence, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the field recognizes the aforementioned awards at a national or international level 
as awards for excellence. In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this 
criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his position as a member, 
founder, and former I lof the I I Council for Import and Export Companies 
(CECIEx). The Director held that while the Petitioner had established his membership in CECIEx, he 
had not shown that CECIEx requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner states that the Director did not recognize his status as founding member and based his 
conclusion on the requirements for general membership contained in CECIEx's bylaws. He contends 
that he meets this criterion through the documentation in the record regarding the distinguished 
background of the CECIExl I He asserts that the '------------------' Members of CECIEx are recognized national and international experts in international trade and, 
"[t ]hus, the [P]etitioner is not just a member, but a member judged by experts in the field and appointed 
as of a distinguished institution." He argues his "founding membership level andD 
.__ __ __.I nomination, judged and approved by unanimous vote of experts in international trade, 
qualifies as a membership that requires outstanding achievements." On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
an article and a publicity release discussing CECIEx' s activities, a list of its 40 founding members that 
includes the Petitioner, and a CV and/or articles pertaining to its founding membersl I, 
'--------------~ I ,I andl l We find that the 
Petitioner has not met his burden of proof in establishing that he meets this criterion. 
Articles in the record indicate the activities of CECIEx include advocating in the interests of the import 
and export sector and promoting! !foreign trade, and that it "comprises over 400 import and 
export companies, with particular emphasis on small and mid-size companies." According to the 
CECIEx's bylaws, "membership can be given to import and export companies, or [companies] with 
potential in foreign trade" located in I I as well as "natural persons" whose activities cover foreign 
trade. In addition, the bylaws indicate there are several levels of membership, including founders, 
meritorious, supporters, aggregate taxpayers, and its institutional member the.__ ______ ~ I ~ described in the record as the largest Chamber of Commerce in Latin America. 
The bylaws state that founding members "are those who were invited by the institution who 
participated in its creation," while general members must submit an application to the executive board. 
The Petitioner provided a copy of the minutes of the 2012 board meeting at which he was elected0 
lof CECIEx. The Petitioner also provided a letter dated 2016 from CECIEx'sl I 
.__ ___________ __, confirming that the Petitioner is a member of the organization. He 
states that in 2012 he "suggested [the Petitioner] to be part o CECIEx" 
and that the recommendation "was submitted to and approved by all .__ _________ __, 
.__ ________________ ____.' The record does not demonstrate, however, the 
organization's criteria for board membership or its selection process. While the Petitioner provided 
documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of several founding members, a comparison 
5 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
alone to the other members of the board is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual 
members of the board may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that CECIEx requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, to be appointed 
to its board. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted articles published between 2010 and 2013 in the 
newspaper Bahia Industrial, and on the websites www.valor.com.br, www.dcomercio.com.br, 
www2.pplanalto.gov.br, and www.univates.br. Upon review, the articles are not about the Petitioner 
but focus on projects, and mention or quote him in discussing those project. For example, the articles 
are about the formation of CECIEx, a CECIEx seminar, the trade meeting I _ ,I and 
how.__ _____ ____. project intensified cargo inspection. In addition, the Bahia Industrial article 
contains an interview of the Petitioner conducted at a meeting organized byl I 
.__ _________ __,, and is about the importance of negotiators in the globalization ofi I 
produced services and goods. Articles that are not about the Petitioner do not establish eligibility for 
this criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 
2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, the article 
published on the website www2.pplanalto.gov.br does not satisfy the requirements of the criterion, as 
it does not identify the author. For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner maintains that he has established his eligibility under this 
criterion based on his having "developed groundbreaking projects in order to promote the export of 
small business' products and enhance their exporting potential," in his work with CECIEx, and as a 
consultant and professor for thel I. In support, 
he has submitted recommendation letters that discuss his work. Upon review, those letters do not 
demonstrate the impact or influence of his work to establish that he has made contributions of major 
significance in the field. 3 
The record contains two letters dated 2015 from I I the president ofl I and the vice 
president of I I and a letter dated 2015 from_ I vice president of I I The letters describe the Petitioner's expertise in the field of international trade as 
"internationally recognized" and "outstanding." The authors provide highlights of the Petitioner's 
3 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
work with CECIEx andl I including his 1osition as a member of the Foreign Trade Council, 
where his work focused on simplifyingj._ __ ___, foreign trade operational procedures for micro, small 
and medium enterprises, and facilitating the access of foreign companies into thel I market. 
The Petitioner also led the reception of foreign delegations on international missions to I l with 
an aim to promote and develop trade and institutional relations for bothl 1Tmpani
1es and the 
I I He was also involved in presentations at seminars and workshops at aimed at 
empowerinf I !companies to operate in international business and foreign trade, and he 
represented,___ _ _.~ith other organizations and governmental agencies worldwide. 
The Petitioner provided two letters dated 2015 from __________ ...., general manager of I I who indicates that he met the Petitioner in 2007 through the "exporter companies 
qualification project" called.___......,,.. ___ ___, He provides some highlights of the Petitioner's work 
with] I between 2012 and 2013. The Petitioner worked as a Professor/Instructor ai.e==] 
University on the project called the "Competitiveness Program -EAD." He served on theL__j 
Superior Council as a representative of CECIEx, and presented at international conferences on 
international markets. He further participated in the I 
organized by the .... l _____________________________ ~ 
I l He explains that the Petitioner's work focuses on what the Petitioner calls "indirect at· on," exporting! ~ products successfully via the use of exporter companies. I I 
describes indirect exportation as "a method still unexplored in many countries including 
He credits the Petitioner with having created "many didactic materials" forl I 
The record also contains a copy of a training manual about export trade that Petitioner prepared for 
the I !Competitiveness Program -EAD. The manual states that its purpose is to serve as "a 
reliable reference to companies and entrepreneurs who wish ... to introduce their products in foreign 
markets . . . providing a better familiarization with export proceedings and international business 
practices." As discussed previously, in order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish not 
only that he has made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
Here whj)el Is letters indicate that the Petitioner's manual has had an influence on 
I Is project, Competitiveness Program -EAD, it does not establish the manual's significance 
to the greater field of foreign trade. Demonstrating ability as a skilled foreign trade executive is not 
itself a contribution of major significance; rather, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has impacted 
the field of foreign trade as a whole. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-135 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field 
as a whole). Here, the record does not include documentary evidence showing the widespread 
implementation of the Petitioner's training manual, that it has been seminal, or that it otherwise equates 
to an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided evidence showing that he presented at several international 
conferences. Participation in a conference demonstrates that his findings were shared with others and 
may be acknowledged as original based on their selection for presentation. However, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the selection of Petitioner's materials for presentation at conferences and requests 
for him to speak in-and-of-themselves show the major significance of his contributions. Publications 
and presentations are not sufficient under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
7 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
1115. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his presenting and speaking engagements were 
majorly significant in the field. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the 
above-referenced letters do not contain sufficient detail, nor does the record include adequate 
supporting documentation, to establish specifically what the Petitioner's contributions were and how 
they represent contributions of major significance in the field. Without additional detail explaining 
his contributions, the record does not adequately demonstrate that the Petitioner's work in the field 
has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that although the record shows that the Petitioner has been employed in a 
leading or critical role for CECIEx as-...._ __ _____,,--------~----' between 2012 and 
2014, the Petitioner did not establish that CECIEx was a company with a distinguished reputation, as 
required by this criterion. 6 The Petitioner has submitted recommendation letters detailing his role as 
~ ~ I of CECIEx, including that in those roles he has played a leading 
or critical role in shaping the future of the company by representing the company on the Foreign Trade 
Council, with business organizations and governmental agencies worldwide, and in the reception of 
foreign delegations on international missions to Brazil. On appeal, the Petitioner has provided 
additional evidence establishing the distinguished reputation of CECIEx. Therefore, we find that the 
Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director held that the evidence in the record did not show that the Petitioner has commanded a 
high salary in relation to others in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner is the CEO of 
I I In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration 
is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 7 The Petitioner submitted a 
2010 Brazilian income tax return forl I, and several of the 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 Id. at 10. 
7 Id. at 11. 
8 
Matter of M-R-D-S-B-
company's purchase orders. He also provided comparative wage data, specifically screenshots from 
bis.gov reflecting that the national median pay for "top executives" is $104,700, and from the 
Occupational Outlook Handbook that shows the national mean wage for "chief executives" is 
$196,050. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he owns 50% ofj I and received 50% of the company's 
profits, which he asserts was "close to half million dollars in 2010." However, as noted by the 
Director, the income tax return froml I does not indicate the salary or remuneration, if any, the 
Petitioner received from the company. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate that he 
earned a salary placing him at the high end of the spectrum for wages of other chief executives. In 
addition, while the regulatory language of the criterion also allows for evidence of "other significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field," the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
showing these other incentives, and establishing that they are significantly high compared to other 
chief executives. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established his acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that he has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-R-D-S-B-, ID# 4266433 (AAO Oct. 2, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 3, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
Following the Petitioner's timely response to the Director of the Nebraska Service Center's request 
for evidence, the Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of 
the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence asserts that she meets at least three 
of the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of Y-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Petitioner is an actress. As she has not received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the record must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria for membership and for judging at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv), respectively. Evidence in the record establishes the Petitioner's 
membership in an artists' union whose bylaws indicate that the organization requires outstanding 
achievements as determined by its own experts. The record also includes correspondence confirming 
that the Petitioner served as a judge in beauty and talent competitions. Accordingly we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for membership and judging. The Director concluded, 
however, that the Petitioner had not shown she met an additional criterion and therefore was not 
eligible for the benefit sought. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the "previously submitted evidence ... establishes that" she meets 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). She farther notes that 
the Director "overlooked a regulatory criteria [sic] of evidence of the alien's artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field that the [petitioner] claimed" ( emphasis in original). 1 
1 In May 2018, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) asking that the Petitioner provide additional documentation 
2 
Matter of Y-S-
As the Petitioner notes on appeal, the Director did not address the Petitioner's claim that she met the 
criterion for original contribution found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Accordingly, we will remand 
the matter for him to analyze the evidence submitted under that criterion. 
In addition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met the published material criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), finding in part that the articles submitted by the Petitioner were not about 
her and her work in the field. However, upon review, we find that that at least one of the submitted 
articles ublished on ambebi. e was in fact about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field: D 
~--------------------------~ which profiles the actress and 
discusses her acting roles. Further, on appeal, the Petitioner provides comparative evidence about the 
monthly number of unique online visits to ambebi.ge, which the Director has not yet had an 
opportunity to consider. Therefore, we also remand this decision for the Director to determine whether 
the noted article about the Petitioner meets the remaining requirements of the published material 
criterion. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least one additional criterion beyond the two 
already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether 
she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596F.3dat 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be remanded to the Director for further action in accordance with this decision. It is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U .S.C. § 1361. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter ofY-S-, ID# 4315991 (AAO Oct. 3, 2019) 
related to the membership, published materials, scholarly articles, display, leading or critical role, and salary criteria found 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii-iv),(vi-ix), respectively. In her timely response to this RFE, the Petitioner provided additional 
evidence and asseited that she also met the criterion for original contribution at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, variously identified as a journalist and "patron of the arts," seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. The Petitioner asserts that the Director applied too strict a standard of proof. 
More broadly, the Petitioner disputes case law relating to the adjudication of extraordinary ability 
petitions. 1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 As an administrative appellate body, we have no authority to overrule or disregard binding judicial case law. In any 
event, the arguments disputing the case law appear to have been copied, without attribution , from an amicus curiae brief 
prepared by the American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) in support of an unrelated petition. (The brief raises 
several points that are not relevant to this proceeding, and the phrase "AILA reiterates its concern ... " appears on page 
I 6 of the Petitioner 's brief.) The AILA amicus brief is available online at https://www.uscis.gov /sites/default/files/ 
USCIS/ About%20Us /Directorates%20and%20Program%20Offices / AAO/Brief%20 I .PDF (last visited Sept. 25, 2019). 
In our appellate decision relating to that other petition, we considered and rebutted the arguments in the amicus brief. 
Because these arguments are not specific to the case now before us, we will not revisit our responses here. 
Matter of O-M-C-
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that she "founded th to honor distinguished writers, 
poets and artists and ... would like to bring the to ... the United States." 
The Petitioner did not submit any evidence to show that the.__ _________ _.( also called 
thel I provided her with paid employment. Rather, the Petitioner has worked primarily 
as a journalist from 1987 to 2013, and "produced two shows on Broadway" in 2012 and 2014. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others and performing in 
2 
Matter of O-M-C-
a leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, 
discussed below. 
We note that the Petitioner has submitted evidence relating to a variety of pursuits, such as journalism, 
stage production, and organizing awards ceremonies, without identifying a field encompassing these 
activities in which she seeks to establish her extraordinary ability. Accordingly, she has not 
demonstrated that all of the submitted evidence relates to the field in which classification is sought. 
Regardless, upon review, the record does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. We begin by discussing the two criteria that the Director granted. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. The regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." In general, a leading role is 
evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which the alien was responsible for the success 
or standing of the organization or establishment. The evidence of record does not establish that the 
Petitioner has met the requirements according to the plain language of this criterion. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence under this criterion, such as press passes, established her employment as 
a journalist witLJ an Italian public broadcasting company. The Petitioner did not document her role 
there in detail except to indicate that she was based inl I; her former colleagues attested that the 
Petitioner covered a range of stories and events in the United States. The role of a network journalist with 
a network is not automatically leading or critical; we note the Petitioner's assertion that "1600 journalist[ s] 
work atc=Jfull time." One colleague claimed that the Petitioner "organize[ d] ... the r ~ 
correspondent's office," but this individual is a newspaper reporter who did not establish direct 
knowledge of the events described. As discussed further below, the Petitioner cited salary figures relating 
to news anchors, but the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner was an anchor rather than a 
correspondent. 
The Petitioner later submitted letters from colleagues, indicating that she served as director of the I I School of Journalism in I I Italy. The letters contain apparent inconsistencies. One 
colleague indicated that the Petitioner became the director of the school after serving on juries to select 
students, whereas another colleague asserted that the Petitioner actually founded the school. The record 
contains no documentary evidence about the school (which the Petitioner did not mention at all in her 
initial submission) or the Petitioner's role there. 
Two of the writers stated that they work at the I I School of Journalism atl !University in I I but they did not state that ~ School and the I I School of Journalism are the same 
institution. The president of the~hool specifically used both names in his letter, naming the I I School in his own credentials and using the name 'l I Schoo\.-fil..1illpnalism" when 
discussing the Beneficiary's work. Another writer, identified as the manager of L_J Merchandising 
and Faculty Restaurant, stated "I work as a manager at th~niversity," and that "I also worked as 
the I lat the I I School of Journalism ... in the years 1992 to 1996." The record 
3 
Matter of O-M-C-
contains no documentary evidence from the ~I --~I School of Journalism to confirm or clarify the 
nature of the Beneficiary's employment there. 
Given the vague and inconsistent claims, coupled with a lack of verifiable, documentary evidence, we 
cannot conclude that the Petitioner has met her burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. We disagree, for the 
reasons outlined below. 
Initially, the Petitioner cited her co-creation of the I I under this criterion, but did not explain 
how this showed her participation as a judge of the work of others. The record is ambiguous as to whether 
the Petitioner has participated as one of the judges who choose award recipients. Furthermore, the awards 
go to "writers, poets and artists." The Petitioner did not claim to have worked in those fields, or explain 
how they are allied to her own field( s) of employment. 
In a supplemental submission, the Petitioner indicated that she had participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the field ofjoumalism. The Petitioner submitted three letters indicating that she served on a jury 
that selected students to attend the I !School ofJournalism. As noted above, the letters are vague 
and inconsistent, and the record contains no documentary evidence from the I I School of 
Journalism, an omission of particular concern when we consider that the Petitioner initially did not 
mention the school at all. 
The Petitioner also submitted a translated copy of an article from an unidentified publication, indicating 
that the Petitioner sat on a jury to decide the winner of an award for "articles, interventions or essays on 
the topic 'Constitutional reforms: rules to be retained."' The article indicates that "[t]he award ceremony 
was held on 3/24/97," but the dateline of the article is "May 1996." The mismatched dates also appear in 
the Italian-language original, from no identified source other than an email message from the Petitioner. 
The inconsistencies and deficiencies in the Petitioner's new evidence diminish their evidentiary weight. 
See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner's evidence ofjudging 
consists solely of inconsistent letters and an article of unknown origin, we find that the Petitioner has not 
submitted enough evidence to meet its burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met the additional criteria discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
4 
Matter of O-M-C-
In order to demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show 
that the association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to 
membership. Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum 
education or experience, standardized test scores, grade point average, recommendations by colleagues 
or current members, or payment of dues do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. Further, the overall prestige of a given association is not determinative; the 
issue here is membership requirements rather than the association's overall reputation. 
The Petitioner cited the following as qualifying memberships: 
• A doctorate in Architecture from the University ofl I 
• An assistant professorship in the department of Architecture atc=]University 
• Listings in the Italian Register of Professional Architects and the Italian Register of Professional 
Journalists 
Most of the above information relates to architecture, but the record does not indicate that the Petitioner 
seeks classification in that field, or that she intends to work as an architect. Also, the Petitioner did not 
explain how a university degree and a faculty position constitute membership in associations, or establish 
the role that recognized national or international experts play in the degree-granting and hiring processes. 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not establish the requirements for listing in the two Italian Registers, or show 
that the listed individuals collectively comprise an association. 
The Petitioner submitted an unsigned letter, attributed to a former dean of the University o~ I, listing 
some of the Petitioner's past achievements and expressing the opinion that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
alien of extraordinary ability "base[ d] on her successful career and distinguished accomplishments." The 
Petitioner cited this letter as evidence of a qualifying membership, but the letter does not mention 
membership in any association. 
The Petitioner later stated that her former em lo erO has a distinguished reputation, and she asserted 
without evidence thatl I "offi'I""'--.........,,-----' is the most prestigious." The Petitioner did not submit 
any evidence that employment by amounts to membership in an association, or that it is contingent 
on outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of 
journalism. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that her involvement with the I I Foundation is, itself, a 
qualifying membership. The Petitioner, however, co-founded the Foundation. The Petitioner has not 
shown that her ability to do so required nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge her 
achievements as outstanding; she has not identified those achievements or the experts who judged them 
to be outstanding. 
The Petitioner also asserts that "there are professional associations with different levels of membership 
and higher levels of membership may satisfy this evidentiary criterion." This is a general statement, and 
the Petitioner has not shown that it relates to any of her claimed memberships. 
The Petitioner has not met the plain language of this criterion. 
5 
Matter of O-M-C-
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Silverman 
v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 
F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner contended that her role in co-creating the I ~ is an original artistic contribution 
of major significance in the field, and that the award is "the Italian equivalent of the Nobel Prize in 
Literature." 
The Petitioner submitted letters from, and background information about, several I lreci}ients. 
For example,! I former Poet Laureate of the United States, stated: "The I as an 
award and as an experience, is one of the two or three most significant forms of recognition I have 
received." I I cited "[t]he international nature of the prize, the elegance of the presentation, the 
generous reception inc=] [ and] the sculptural work of art that comes with the prize." These factors do 
not establish the significance of the prize itself. 
Another former Poet Laureate) I stated that the I k is "possibly Italy's most prestigious 
international literary honor," but did not elaborate on that assertion. 
The reputation of these writers is not in dispute in this proceeding, but their own acclaim does not establish 
the significance of th~ I It is significant that the Petitioner has been able to locate and submit 
high-quality, objective documentation about these award winners, but has not provided evidence of a 
similar caliber relatin to the or the Petitioner's creation thereof. The Petitioner has chosen 
to compare the ~---~to the Nobel Prize, but has not shown that the two prizes enjoy comparable 
prestige or receive comparable attention, for example in news coverage. The coverage documented in 
the record consists primarily of press releases from the winners' employers and publishers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two letters from individuals who are involved with the Nobel Prize for 
Literature.~--------~ of the Uni1ersity o1 I I stated that he is "in continuous 
contact with the jury of this Prize," and that "[t]he Academy in its work for choosing the laureates 
[ of] the Nobel Prize in Literature has taken account of the decisions of the I IF oundation," 
and that the Academy and the Foundation have been in "direct cooperation ... [since] 2014." The 
Petitioner did not describe the nature of this cooperation, submit documentation of any formal agreement, 
or show how many other organizations cooperate with the Academy in this way or how the Academy 
selects those organizations. 
I la member ofthel I Academy and Nobel Committee for Literature, stated: "The I , lhas an important place in contemporary culture. It has been awarded to several writers who 
were later to receive the literary Nobel Prize .... As a winner of thel I myself: I also have 
personal knowledge of this prize." 
6 
Matter of O-M-C-
The quoted letters demonstrate that some experts in the field are familiar with the I I But this 
familiarity does not establish that the Petitioner's contributions have been of major significance in the 
field. Recognition does not necessarily equate to major significance in the field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained how the creation of the is an original 
contribution. The Petitioner identified no characteristic of the,__ ___ ___,that distinguishes them from 
other literary prizes and awards. The record does not rule out the originality of the I I but the 
burden is on the Petitioner to make that case and submit appropriate corroborating evidence. 
Beyond thel l Attorney! I initially identified as Italy's Honorary Consul for 
the State ofl I stated that the Petitioner's "contribution is a bridge to the Italian and American 
cultures," and that the Petitioner "has donated her time by actinJ as a liaison between my office and Italian 
Diplomats ... in the United States," primarily inl _. did not ex lain the larger 
significance of the Petitioner's efforts in this regard. In later correspondence,,__ ___ ~acknowledged 
that he had represented the Petitioner in a personal injury case. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field [ emphasis 
added]." Without additional, specific evidence showing that the Petitioner's work has been unusually 
influential, widely applied throughout her field, or has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of 
major significance, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
There are two other criteria that the Petitioner previously claimed to meet, but does not defend on appeal. 
Therefore, these issues are abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). We 
will briefly note the Petitioner's claims under these two criteria. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserted that she meets this criterion because she produced two plays inl I one in 
2012 and the other in 2014. The Petitioner does not claim to have met any other regulatory c;riteria 
through her work as a theatrical producer, and the Petitioner has not explained how that work relates 
either to her career in journalism or to her endeavors relating to the I I 
The appellate brief discusses display, but only in the context of the "comparable evidence" clause at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), asserting for instance that "scholars and academics 'display' their work" at 
academic conferences. The Petitioner had not previously invoked the "comparable evidence" clause, 
and does not discuss the specifics of this case in discussing the issue. The Petitioner discusses the 
issue only in the context of disputing Kazarian and related case law. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
7 
Matter of O-M-C-
The Petitioner stated that the "average News Anchor Salary in New York" is "116,923 in 2018 dollars," 
and that her "[t]otal gross annual pay in 2000 was $146,530." The Petitioner contended: "In today's 
dollars, the value of the contract would be significantly higher." 
Supporting documents show that, while the average news anchor salary in New York was $116,923 in 
2018, the range of salaries was very broad. The 90th percentile was $427,116, meaning that one anchor 
in ten earned more than that amount. The quoted figure of $146,530, while above average, is not 
significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
A larger issue, however, is that the Petitioner did not accurately describe her own compensation. A 
translated letter fromc=J in Italy, from May 2000, specified the Petitioner's expected "[t]otal gross 
annual pay" not as US $146,530, but as 146,530,160 Italian lira. The same document states that, "[b]y 
converting into foreign currency," the Petitioner's "[y]early pay in US dollars" would be $59,140.70. The 
Petitioner did not show that this amount was significantly high for news anchors in New York in 2000. 
The Petitioner also did not submit any other documentary evidence relating to her compensation. 
The Petitioner does not revisit this issue on appeal, and we consider the claim to be abandoned. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought.2 For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofO-M-C-, ID# 5108163 (AAO Oct. 8, 2019) 
2 As the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act we need not 
address whether she is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). 
However, we briefly note that record raises questions in this regard. The Petitioner stated that she "has been here on an E-2 
visa as a manager for several companies that have invested $26,000,000 ine:=Jandl land ... also owns commercial 
real estate inl lthat she manages." The Petitioner did not identify the companies or establish that they have any relation 
to the I !or her journalism career. The Petitioner also stated that she "was unable to sustain her remarkable 
contributions to the arts or journalism ... because of a serious accident" in 2015. The attorney who represented her after the 
accident stated that the Petitioner "strives every day to get back to her work as a journalist, producer and entrepreneur." This 
language indicates that it is still uncertain that the Petitioner will be able to resume her past work. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF D-E-H-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 9, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3), 
which requires documentation of a one-time achievement , or evidence that meets at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider. The Director dismissed the motion, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that 
the denial was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
We will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. ANALYSIS 
Although the Petitioner 's appellate brief primarily addresses the Director's initial denial decision, we 
emphasize that the Petitioner did not appeal the denial order itself, but rather the Director's subsequent 
finding that its combined motion did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or motion to 
reconsider. Therefore , the merits of the denial decision, and of the underlying petition, are not before 
us. The only issue before us is whether the Director properly found that the combined motion did not 
meet applicable requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. A motion that does not 
meet applicable requirements must be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) . 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding ; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
Matter of D-E-H-S-
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Although the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider, the decision dismissing the motion did not cite to the regulatory requirements for filing 
a motion to reopen, or otherwise address the motion to reopen or why it was insufficient to meet those 
requirements. Therefore, we find that the Director did not adjudicate the motion to reopen. 
With respect to the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we note that the Director addressed only one of 
several legal arguments made in the 26-page brief submitted in support of the motion. Specifically, 
the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's reliance on Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 
WL 4711885 at 7-8 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) in support of its claim that his awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized awards given for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Specifically, the Petitioner claimed that the Director incorrectly determined that he was not "officially 
credited" for a nationally recognized award and pointed to evidence showing that he had received an 
individual award certificate along with the award statuette awarded to his band at the I I I I in Venezuela. The Director did not acknowledge this claim and instead reached a 
conclusion that "the Circuit Court's [sic] decision apparently supports the AAO decision [sic] with 
regard to plaintiff not being the direct recipient of the awards in his name for his work as lead guitarist." 
Further, in its brief on motion, the Petitioner alleged several errors in the Director's application of the 
regulatory criteria to the facts presented and in the Director's interpretation of the plain language of 
those criteria. The Director did not address these arguments, and instead summarily concluded that 
the motion did not "establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the 
time of the initial decision." An officer must fully explain the reasons for denial in order to allow the 
petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Therefore, because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen 
or fully addressed the merits of the motion to reconsider, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to 
consider the Petitioner's arguments in that motion. The Director must at least address the Petitioner's 
claims and any new facts, and explain why they are deficient to overcome the denial of the petition. 
II. CONCLUSION 
As the Director's decision did not address the Petitioner's motion to reopen or sufficiently address the 
merits of the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we will remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter of D-E-H-S-, ID# 5189408 (AAO Oct. 9, 2019) 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF E-R-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: OCT. 15, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a postdoctoral fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. We dismissed his subsequent appeal, concluding that he had not 
submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at 
least three of the ten criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider and a motion to reopen. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets three criteria in addition to the one 
criterion we found that he meets in our previous decision. 
Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
1 See Matter of E-R-, ID# 1805888 (AAO Dec. 13, 2018). 
Matter of E-R-
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor.2 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 3 
II. BACKGROUND 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but that he fell short of establishing several 
others. In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that he 
satisfied the following criteria: published material under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and original contributions under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 4 In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner presents additional documentation relating 
to those three criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred 
in our prior decision. Further, the new evidence submitted in support of the motion to reopen does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner contends that he meets three additional criteria. He does not, however, specifically 
argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Disagreeing with our 
conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may 
submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
2 See Kazarian v. USC1S, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathc, 25 T&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 20 I 0). 
3 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the comi, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(l )(iii). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
4 On motion, the Petitioner does not claim to meet the previously claimed criteria related to awards under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 
Matter of E-R-
decision). Here, we will address below the Petitioner's submission of new evidence under the motion 
to reopen section. 
In reference to the judging criterion, the Petitioner did not dispute our finding in our previous decision 
that the evidence submitted showing that the Petitioner was requested to conduct seven manuscript 
reviews for professional scientific journals, such as Physical Review Letters and Computer Physics 
Communications, did not establish that he actually performed the manuscript reviews. In addition, he 
did not contest our conclusion that the documentation he presented on appeal, in the form of seven 
documents claiming to be his reviews of the manuscripts, did not contain pertinent identifying 
information such as who conducted the reviews, what manuscripts were appraised for which journals, 
and evidence from the publications confirming that he accomplished the manuscript review requests. 
Regarding the published material criterion, in our prior decision, we determined that articles 
submitted, posted on lescienze.com, livescience.com, space.com, and sciencenode.org, do not reflect 
published material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, which include the title, date, and author. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 5 Instead, the 
screenshots report on a new theory by scientists from~-----------~ Laboratory 
without reflecting published material about the Petitioner. We noted that the Petitioner is never 
mentioned in the screenshots from space.com, only listed as a contributing author in the screenshots 
from livescience.com and sciencenode.org, and quoted one time in the screenshots from 
lescienze.com. On motion, the Petitioner disputes our finding, and asserts that "because the published 
material focuses on the particular team, refers to [the Petitioner] as a member of the team and co­
author of the paper(s), and directly quotes him, the articles are about [the Petitioner], not merely his 
employer or an organization with which he is or has been associated." Similarly, the Petitioner 
contends that he made original contributions of major significance in the field. However, as stated 
previously, disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or 
policy or pointing to precedent decisions that contradict our analysis of the evidence is not a ground 
to reconsider our decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As discussed above, in our decision, we found that the articles posted on lescienze.com, 
livescience.com, space.com, and sciencenode.org were not about the Petitioner, and he did not 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
3 
Matter of E-R-
demonstrate that those websites constituted professional or major trade publications or major media. 
We noted that as evidence of major media, the Petitioner previously offered screenshots from Similar 
Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for lescienze.com, livescience.com, and space.com, 
reflecting that the websites range from a global ranking of 5,985 to 97,235, a country ranking of 1,899 
to 2,462, and total visits of 85,296 to 20,560,000. We found that the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing statistics or show how such information reflects 
status as major media. On motion, the Petitioner submits new evidence in support of his assertion that 
those websites should be considered as major media. Specifically, a "January 2018 Web Server 
Survey" posted on news.netcraft.com indicates that it received survey responses from more than 1.8 
billion websites. The Petitioner contends that, given that there are more than 1.8 billion websites, the 
fact that the above-referenced websites had a global ranking of 5,985 to 97,235, "places their 
circulation within the top ... (.0001 % ) to ... (.01 % ) of all websites on the internet" and indicates "the 
publications that have covered [the Petitioner] and his work constitute major media." However, 
documentation indicating the total number of websites on the Internet is not evidence demonstrating 
how the global or country rankings from Similar Web indicate major international or national media. 
Regarding the judging criterion, as discussed above, in our previous decision we determined that 
evidence submitted showing that the Petitioner was requested to conduct seven manuscript reviews 
for professional scientific journals did not establish that he actually performed the manuscript reviews, 
in the absence of pertinent information such as evidence from the publications confirming that he 
accomplished the manuscript reviews. On motion, the Petitioner submits documentation from the 
journals Computer Physics Communications, Physical Review Letters, Physical Review D, and 
Journal of High Energy Physics, confirming that he completed manuscript review requests for those 
publications. As such, the Petitioner has sufficiently established that he meets this criterion. 
In addition, we previously determined that the Petitioner's recommendation letters and updated 
information relating to his citation record did not establish that he made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 6 On motion, the Petitioner resubmits 
screenshots from Google Scholar showing that his top three highest cited articles garnered 106, 91, 
and 83 citations res ectivel evidence of the Petitioner's participation in the XXVIII International 
Symposium on in I I Italy, an article that he co-authored in the journal 
Nature on~--~2018, after the filing of the petition, and screenshots from websites reporting on 
the article. However, this documentation has already been submitted, reviewed, and considered; 
accordingly, we will not address them in this proceeding. 
As it relates to his citation record, the Petitioner provided screenshots from inspirehep.net reflecting 
that his "h-index" is 16 for "published only" and 18 for "citeable papers." He claimed that c=J I I, suggests that 'for faculty at major research universities h ~ 10 to 12 
might be a typical value for advancement to tenure (associate professor), and h ~ 18 for advancement 
to full professor."' ( emphasis in original). We noted that although the Petitioner referenced~ 
~-~Is article, he did not submit it to support his claims. We further found that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how qualifying for advancement to full professor based on an h-index ranking shows 
that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Nor were we persuaded that 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (providing an example that although work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Matter of E-R-
every journal article factored into the Petitioner's h-index rating is necessarily considered by the field 
to be an original contribution of major significance. We explained that publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. 
On motion, the Petitioner presents .... ! ------;::::=l~a:::::crt..::c:i~c.:c.::le::2.,_' !::::;-----y-------,,----------~ I I' published on pnas.org, confirming I I suggestion that "h ~ 18 might be a typical 
value for advancement to foll professor." The Petitioner also provides a printout from I lthat, in part, discusses the tenure review process atl !Faculty of 
Arts and Sciences. As discussed in our appellate decision, however, this evidence does not 
demonstrate how qualifying for advancement to tenure or foll professor based on an h-index ranking 
satisfies this criterion. Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown 
that, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, his findings have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the overall field. 7 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate his eligibility for the benefit sought. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of E-R-, ID# 4857488 (AAO Oct. 15, 2019) 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF N-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: SEPT. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a research engineer working in the field of chemical engineering , seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that in addition to the two evidentiary 
criteria that the Director found he met, he meets an additional four criteria, and has sustained national 
or international acclaim. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofN-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a research engineer in the I lf"in=d=u=st=r~Y~- ~H=e~o=b=ta=in=e=d"" 
his Ph.D. in chemical engineering in 2013, focusing his research in the area ofl I 
.___ ______ __.I- .___ _____ ____. 
In his decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, those relating 
to his authorship of scholarly articles and his service as a judge of the work of others in his field. On 
appeal, he asserts that he also meets an additional four criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that he does not meet the initial evidence requirement of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner is a member of the I I and serves as one of six directors for the organiz .... a-t1-. o-n-' s_N_o_rt_h_e_rn_C_a_h __ f-orn_i_a-lo_c_a_l_s_e_ct_i_on__., 
which is its fifth largest in the world. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner submitted a letter froml lwho states that he is a Fellow withl I a membership 
level which he states "recognizes long-term excellence in both professional accomplishments and 
2 
Matter ofN-B-
service to the P.rofession." He also verifies the Petitioner's membership on the Executive Leadership 
Committee forl !Northern California section, and indicates that the general requirements for this 
position include nomination by a selection committee "which selects candidates based on background 
and expertise in chemical engineering and any volunteering experience," followed by an election by 
all members. I ~dds that candidates who will be symposium chairs, a role which the Petitioner 
has served in, "are required to have additional qualifications on being well-reputed among the 
academia and industry peers ... " On review, the letter indicates that nomination is based upon 
background and volunteering experience, not outstanding achievements, and that the final selection is 
made by vote of all of the members versus recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits thel !Northern California section's bylaws. Article III lists 
the four membership classes, but defers to the national or "home office" requirements for each class 
without further details. In addition, in explaining the nomination process for the executive committee, 
Article V indicates that "qualified" candidates should be selected, but does not explain what the 
qualifications for committee membership are, stating only that student members are not eligible. 
Therefore, neither the bylaws norl ~s letter establish that the Petitioner's membership on the I I Northern California section executive committee requires outstanding achievements or is 
judged by recognized national or international experts. This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he served as a chair for a one day sym osium presented by the 
Northern California cha ter co-chaired sessions at the 2016 and 2017 annual meetin s 
a meeting, and the 2017 .__ _________ _. 
~------------------~ and reviewed undergraduate and graduate students 
awards submissions. In addition, he served as a peer reviewer for three papers submitted to the Journal 
of Membrane Science, and reviewed a research proposal for the University ofl !Research 
Board. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this criterion has been met. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Director noted in his decision that the number of citations of the Petitioner's published research 
was far fewer than other researchers in the field, and compared it to the number of citations to the 
work o~ I who authored a reference letter submitted with this petition. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that this comparison does not takd ~ long career into account, and instead 
argues that the number of citations in his first six years as a researcher should be compared to the 
3 
Matter ofN-B-
Petitioner's. However, while the Petitioner's overall citation history is a relevant consideration in a 
final merits determination, neither comparison is particularly useful as an indicator of whether he has 
made original contributions of major significance to the field of chemical engineering as a whole. We 
note that the record does not include more relevant, contemporary comparative data to aid in the 
determination of whether the number of citations to the Petitioner's published research is indicative of 
impact or influence in the field. 
The Petitioner identifies as the most important of his ori inal contributions his research on the "V­
treatment" technique he developed for which was 
published in the ioumal Carbon and led to a granted patent. A reference letter from I I of the I I Institute of Technology I ~' under whose supervision the 
Petitioner worked during his graduate research, states that this technique increases the performance of I ~esulting in lower cost and environmental impact in 
commercial settings. 1 He also notes that his group at I I built upon the Petitioner's work, 
leading to a patent assigned to the United States Department of Energy on which the Petitioner is not 
named as an inventor. In a second letter submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), I I writes that his research group continues to pursue commercialization of the 
V-treatment process, with the expectation of successful field tests. While these letters demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's research has been important to~-----~s research group, they do not 
establish that it has already been of major significance to the overall area ofl I technology . 
.__ _______ __,I CTO atL..._ __ ___,..-----.........----____.,also submitted a reference letter, 
noting that he first met the Petitioner at also endorses the Petitioner's V-
treatment technique, writing that it "could help apply.__ _____ ~ on an industrial scale," and 
states that other companies, including his employer, "have leveraged [the Petitioner's] original work 
in their patent research." However, he does not provide specifics on how others have implemented 
the Petitioner's work, and like.__ _____ _, indicates that the industrial implementation of his 
invention is yet to occur. 
Another expert who writes about the Petitioner's V-treatment process isl He states 
in his letter that it "offers a solution to one of the field's major challenges," and that "the quality and 
number of citations the article has received in a short amount of time" shows the Carbon article's 
influence on the field. However, the record lacks supporting evidence of the quality of the citations, 
as well as comparative evidence showing that the rate of citation to this article is indicative of 
remarkable influence on other researchers in the field. 
The record also includes evidence of the four granted patents listing the Petitioner as an inventor, as 
well as six patent applications filed in 2018 that are currently pending. Two of the granted patents 
relate to the Petitioner's V-treatment process, discussed above . .__ _____ __, the Petitioner's 
technical supervisor with his current employer, describes his work on the company'~ I I I I project which led to another of the patents, and indicates that it "will be key on farther 
development of the I I technology." Although I Is letter shows that the 
Petitioner has had an influence on this and other research projects for his employer, it does not 
demonstrate that this work has already been of major significance to the overall field. 
1 While all of the reference letters in the record have been thoroughly reviewed, not all will be mentioned in this decision. 
4 
Matter ofN-B-
In summary, the evidence described above, as well as other evidence not specifically mentioned, 
shows that the Petitioner has made important contributions to I Is research group atl I 
C=1 as well as to his current employer. But it does not establish that his original contributions have 
been of major significance to the overall field of chemical engineering, or the more specialized area 
ofl I technology. Accordingly, this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes evidence which establishes that as of the date he filed his petition, the Petitioner 
had authored two scholarly articles which had been published in scientific journals, and has since 
authored an additional two published articles. As such, it establishes that he has met this criterion. 2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to qualify under this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. On the other hand, a critical role may 
be shown by evidence of a petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. A 
petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization 
or establishment as a whole. 
Here, the Petitioner focuses on his roles with L.._ __ .----________ ____J Research Group at 
I I as well as in his current position w · and points to reference letters 
describing his role in each of those organizations. ~--~ writes in his reference letter that as a 
Ph.D. candidate in his group, the Petitioner developed the V-treatment procedure which significantly 
improves the performance I land allows them to be scaled up for commercial use. He 
notes that this research contribution "chan ed the direction of our future studies in the advancement 
and commercialization of technology," and concludes that the Petitioner "blazed a 
path for my group at~----~' In a second letter, I I expands upon this, stating that 
roughly 60% of the work now conducted by his research group "follow along the path that [the 
Petitioner] has opened up with his research." However, we note that these letters indicate that the 
criticality of the Petitioner's work did not become evident until after his departure, and do not establish 
that his role as a graduate student researcher was critical while he was a member of the group. 
In addition, even if the evidence were to establish that the Petitioner played a critical role forD I Is research group, it does not demonstrate that the research group has a distinguished re:utation. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the graduate chemical engineering department atl ~ I 
was ranked sixth (tied with at least four other departments) by US. News & World Report, butD I ldoes not claim in his letters that the Petitioner's ro)e was critical for the overall department. 
Further, while I Is biography listed inl ~ faculty directory webpage indicates that 
2 We note that while the Petitioner's curriculum vitae indicated that he had also authored several abstracts which had been 
presented at scientific conferences, the record does not include evidence to show that the abstracts were published. 
5 
Matter ofN-B-
his group "is a leader" in the field, this statement is not corroborated with independent documentary 
evidence of the group's reputation. 
Regarding the Petitioner's current role with I I he references two letters from current and 
former colleagues. I I who co-authored a patent application with the Petitioner, also 
notes that they collaborated on two conference presentations which "demonstrated I ts 
proprietary I I technology before the international I I community and were crucial to 
garnering the interest of potential develo ers." While I !concludes that the 
Petitioner "has served in a critical capacity for " he does not ex lain the impact of the patent 
or the presentations in terms of their effect on .__ ___________ ~overall operations, 
finances or research. 
The second letter regarding the Petitioner's critical role with his current employer was written bv□ I I He states that the Petitioner was the technical lead on I . :r I 
.__ ____________________ ____,research projects. The Petitioner's role in 
spearheading the experimental design and commercialization of the~ project led to a patent 
application and further funding for its development, and I I states that the I I "is 
expected to increase revenue by $30-$40 million/year." He also writes that the Petitioner was "a key 
contributor to the I I project," and was the project manager for a water desalination 
project. I I concludes by noting that the Petitioner has received over a dozen internal 
performance award~ for this an~ other contributions to I Is research and development 
programs. As withl._ ____ _.j letter, however, this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has 
made contributions to his employer through several research projects, but does not establish this work 
made a critiCa.LlDllllli~ on its overall operations. Further, while the record includes evidence which 
indicates that is the.__ _________ _,company in the United States, the evidence 
regarding it ,.._ ____ __, subsidiary does not establish that it enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the reasons given above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration/or services, in relation to others in thefield. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(H)(3)(ix) 
As evidence of his salary, the Petitioner submitted his 2016 and 2017 IRS Form W-2s, which show 
that he earned approximately $107,000 and $112,000 in those years, respectively. In addition, a letter 
from his current employer states that his base salary for 2018 was $122,000. In support of the level 
of his salary in relation to others in his field, he submitted two salary reports from the website of the 
Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Data Center, which shows the salaries for chemical euo:iueers iu 
the I I California metropolitan area for 2017 and 2018. He also submitted the I I 
Global Salary Guide from recruiting company Hays for 2016. The Director concluded that this 
evidence does not show that the Petitioner "is among the highest paid research engineers in the United 
States." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director applied an incorrect evidentiary standard, as the 
language does not require that the Petitioner's salary be among the highest, but that it be relatively 
high. We agree. However, we do not agree with the Petitioner's interpretation of the FLC data. On 
6 
Matter ofN-B-
appeal, he asserts that since this was his first job since obtaining his Ph.D. in 2013, his wage should 
be compared to that of entry level chemical engineers at the level 1 wage. As noted on the salary data 
reports in the record, qualifying education and training for the referenced position consists of a 
bachelor's degree. The Petitioner's doctorate degree places him well above these minimum 
qualifications, and well above the trainee or intern level appropriate for a level 1 wage. 3 At the more 
applicable level 3 wage, which includes positions requiring "years of experience or educational 
degrees that are at the higher ranges,"4 the evidence shows that the Petitioner's salary for 2016 and 
2017 was below average, and only slightly above average for 2018. 
In addition, we do not find that the Hays report includes data which is sufficient to form a basis for 
comparison to the Petitioner's salary. Specifically, none of the job titles included appear to be research 
positions, nor is there any description of the duties of these positions, and the data does not account 
for local variations in salary. Accordingly, after comparison of the Petitioner's salary with the relevant 
data in the record, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of sustained acclaim and standing in his field required for the 
classification sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
3 See Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance at 6 for a detailed explanation of the four skill levels, accessed on 
the FLC Data Center website at https://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC _Guidance_ Revised_ 11 _ 2009 .pdf 
4 Id. 
7 
Matter ofN-B-
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of N-B-, ID# 4420324 (AAO Sept. 30, 2019) 
8 